<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_EC1604B0CA6F4D2CABAA511462253265"> 
  <title>DITA authoring concepts</title> 
  <shortdesc>Moving from style-based authoring to a structured authoring
	 methodology such as DITA requires a radically different approach to writing. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <conbody> 
	 <lq reftitle="Ann Rockley">DITA is an open content standard that defines a
		common structure for content that promotes the consistent creation, sharing,
		and re-use of content. 
	 </lq> 
	 <p> 
		<draft-comment>This section needs reorganisation, and more DITA overview
		  content from papers, WinANT, or HATC424. (Perhaps refer to TACTICS workbook?)
		  Some of the topics should be moved to the Literature review section of the
		  Exegesis. 
		</draft-comment> 
		<draft-comment>Need to add an introduction topic to say that this Manual
		  of Style isn't a replacement for the DITA Langref, but is intended to be read
		  alongside it. Also, it is not intended to be a comprehsive guide to all DITA
		  elements and attributes, and nor is it intended to be a DITA training manual.
		  It is intended to be a reference when contentious issues are encountered. It
		  documents a series of suggestions for how DITA shoudl be implemented, and its
		  main goal is to provide a tool for creating consistent and logical DITA
		  semantic mark-up. 
		</draft-comment> 
		<draft-comment>Do we need a topic explaining the open source movement 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
