<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_6FD9560EEEED4FB0A70086250EE15F88"> 
  <title>Foreword</title> 
  <shortdesc><?xm-replace_text Short Description?>
  </shortdesc> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA represents a fundamental shift in the approach to writing and
		publishing, and to a certain extent, the carefully accumulated practice of
		hundreds of years of publication projects has to be reviewed and redefined. 
	 </p>
	 <section id="section_73DD7CCCB3734B7DB29E4D200702B61F"
	  audience="contributor">
		<title>Rationale</title>
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/12656"> I would
		  suggest that users who are interested in a particular feature get together and
		  define their own best practices for said feature. Define the markup that
		  authors should use, and define the processing expectations of that markup. If
		  this unofficial spec is reasonable, then vendors will find it in their
		  interests to support it rather than striking out on their own. (It's this kind
		  of distributed, grassroots power-to-the-users ideology that the DITA TC wants
		  to instill in the community.) I've found that vendors (both commercial and
		  non-commercial) are usually very willing to accommodate users' requirements,
		  once they know what those requirements are. 
		</lq>
		<lq reftitle="Joe Gershon, OASIS DITA TC Mailing List">The problem is
		  that the vast majority of new users are misusing DITA to a point that they are
		  often worse off than they were in Word or FrameMaker. Most companies choose not
		  to hire an expert to help them migrate to DITA, and they get what they pay for.
		  I'd like us as a TC (and moving forward via the Adoption SC) to put tutorials,
		  white papers, etc. in place to educate new users to help them to do the right
		  thing from the beginning. At the same time, we must develop tutorials, white
		  papers, and other guides that cover as many use cases and user groups as we're
		  aware of and address their needs, suggesting best practices and, where
		  relevant, providing unofficial packages of DTDs and supporting code (e.g.
		  DITA-OT plugins). 
		</lq>
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
