<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_5ED05886AB184031B5A4A9F8FD5D58E5"> 
  <title>Conditions in cross-references</title> 
  <shortdesc>The standard DITA metadata attributes of 
	 <synph>audience</synph>, 
	 <synph>platform</synph>, 
	 <synph>product</synph>, and 
	 <synph>otherprops</synph> can be applied to 
	 <synph>xref</synph> elements to allow conditional processing of
	 cross-references. Positioning cross-references at the end of a sentence makes
	 it easier to exclude the cross-reference without affecting the sense of the
	 sentence. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>conditional
			 processing<indexterm>cross-references</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>xref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>xref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata
			 attributes</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>If you need to cross-reference different resources for different
		publication variants, use the 
		<synph>audience</synph> attribute to define these conditions. For
		example, if the PDF version of the output links to a different resource than
		the Help version, you could include two adjacent 
		<synph>xref</synph> elements, one with the 
		<synph>audience</synph> attribute set to 
		<userinput>pdf_user</userinput>, and the other set to 
		<userinput>help_user</userinput>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2" importance="high">For 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		and above, the 
		<synph>keyref</synph> mechanism should be used in preference to
		duplicating and 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_conditionalising"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If you are using cross-references in conjunction with conditional
		processing, positioning an in-text cross-reference (<synph>xref</synph>)
		element at the end of a sentence makes it easier to exclude. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if a cross-reference is to be included in the Web rendition
		of a DITA collection, but excluded from the PDF rendition, then 
		<synph>audience</synph> attribute might be used to differentiate the
		PDF-only text. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The code: 
		<codeblock status="changed">&lt;p&gt;The coolant expansion tank is attached to 
the firewall&lt;ph audience="help_user"&gt;, as shown in 
&lt;xref href="c_engine_bay#eng_bay/fig_coolant_system" type="fig"/&gt;&lt;/ph&gt;.
&lt;/p&gt;</codeblock>might be rendered in the output as 
		<systemoutput>The coolant expansion tank is attached to the
		  firewall.</systemoutput> when the 
		<userinput>help_user</userinput> content is excluded, and as 
		<systemoutput>The coolant expansion tank is attached to the firewall, as
		  shown in Figure 3.</systemoutput> otherwise. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_36BD018D02AD4877AE90639506C7699E"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Paul Masalsky, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17086"> 
		  <p>We have this situation for cross references, too. Some topics are
			 included in PDFs but not in help systems. Other topics, included in both PDF
			 and help, might cross reference topics that are excluded from the help systems.
			 
		  </p> 
		  <p>To include those cross references for PDF, we use &lt;xref
			 audience="PDF_user"&gt; (or similar for the parent of &lt;xref&gt;, such as a
			 &lt;p&gt;). To exclude them for help generation, we specify
			 audience="help_user" in our ditaval files, which has the effect of excluding
			 the cross references identified by audience="PDF_user".It bends the meaning of
			 the "audience" attribute a bit, but we find it has worked pretty well. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Patrick Quinlan, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/13157">We've run
		  into a similar, though reversed, issue where we have xrefs that are fine in the
		  PDF, but we don't want them in the HTML. Our solution is to train authors to
		  place that kind of xref at the beginning or end of a sentence. For example: The
		  vDisk store can be accessed by the farm, as shown in &lt;xref="figure
		  reference"/&gt;. The text ",as shown in &lt;xref="figure reference"/&gt;" is
		  marked with a PDF condition. The result for PDF: The vDisk store can be
		  accessed by the farm, as shown in Figure 5 on page 117. The result for HTML:
		  The vDisk store can be accessed by the farm. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
