<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_A2EED5F6282845D3BC523F71BDA21DFD"> 
  <title>Links to non-DITA resources</title> 
  <shortdesc>Cross-references can be used to link from within DITA topics to
	 non-DITA resources, such as Web URLs, e-mail addresses, and documents stored on
	 file servers. The 
	 <synph>scope</synph> and 
	 <synph>format</synph> attributes of the cross-reference are used to define
	 the nature of the linked resource, and indirectly the way the link will behave.
	 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>xref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>scope</indexterm><indexterm>format</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>PDF<indexterm>linking
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>HTML<indexterm>linking
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cross-references</indexterm><indexterm>xref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>linking</indexterm><indexterm>hyperlinks</indexterm><indexterm>Internet<indexterm>linking
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Web<indexterm>linking
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>e-mail addresses<indexterm>linking
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>scope
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>peer</indexterm><indexterm>format
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>external<indexterm>cross-references</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p> The four most important attributes in the cross-reference
		(<synph>xref</synph>) element are 
		<synph>href</synph>, 
		<synph>type</synph>, 
		<synph>scope</synph> and 
		<synph>format</synph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When linking to non-DITA resources such as PDF files or Web addresses,
		the 
		<synph>scope</synph> attribute describes whether the linked resource is
		treated as part of the DITA collection or external to it. This setting will
		ultimately determine how the HTML output code will be formed during the
		publishing process, and then how the browser will handle the link. The 
		<synph>format</synph> attribute describes the type of resource being
		linked to. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The main 
		<synph>scope</synph> attribute values are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>local 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the resource forms part of the content collection (and will
			 typically be opened in the current browser when it is output to a hypertext
			 form) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>external 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the resource is managed separately to the content collection (and
			 will typically be opened in a new browser or tab when it is output to a
			 hypertext form) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <note>The other valid 
		<synph>scope</synph> attribute of 
		<option>peer</option> is similar to 
		<option>local</option>, but is used when the linked resource is not
		available at build time. It is only relevant when linking to DITA resources. 
	 </note> 
	 <p>The valid 
		<synph>format</synph> attribute values for non-DITA resources are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>html 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the non-DITA file format of the linked resource is HTML or XHTML 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>pdf 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the non-DITA file format of the linked resource is PDF 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>txt 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the non-DITA file format of the linked resource is plain text 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt><varname>file type</varname> 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the three letter file extension of the non-DITA file format of the
			 linked resource (for example, 
			 <userinput>ppt</userinput> and 
			 <userinput>odt</userinput>) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>An example of the code for a local and an external cross-reference link
		is: 
		<codeblock>&lt;xref href="somefile.html" format="html" scope="local" /&gt;
&lt;xref href="somefile.doc" format="doc" scope="external" /&gt;
&lt;xref href="http://abc.com/intro.htm" format="html" scope="external" /&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p> 
		<draft-comment>Think about restructuring this topic so that some of it
		  goes to "The xref Element", some stays as the Non-DITA links, and the topc
		  about linking in a new window becomes a note in this topic. But maybe this
		  structure is better for reference? 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_D8D6678A3CC947D49EABDE17593C1E84"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
			href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/16348" scope="external" format="html">georgerioux
		  wrote: 
		  <q>From what I can gather from reading the spec (which explicitly
			 mentions linking to .txt files), you should be able to do this by setting the
			 correct format (e.g., doc) and scope (e.g., peer) attributes, but when I add
			 the xref in my source the link in the HTML output does not work. (I've tried
			 several different combinations of scope and format.)</q> Try using
		  scope="external" and copying the *.doc file manually to the output area after
		  the build has finished. (scope="peer" is almost never what you want. It is for
		  a very specific use that doesn't include what you are trying to do.) 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17635" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p>On 2010-03-18 05.38, mt_si_dad wrote: &gt; &lt;xref
			 href="mailto:name@domain. com"&gt;Click to send e-mail&lt;/xref&gt; 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Yes, that looks good. I'd also recommend adding scope="external" so
			 that the build knows not to try to follow the link. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Eliot Kimber, Yahoo! DITA Users Group" scope="external" format="html"
		href="http://groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17644"> You need to add
		  scope="external" ( as you would for any reference to things that are outside of
		  your DITA content set). You may need to also say format="email" or something
		  but that probably shouldn't be necessary--most processors should just pass an
		  external URI straight through to the output. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
