<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9195" status="new"> 
  <title>Cross-referencing a ditamap</title> 
  <shortdesc>Cross-references to ditamaps should not be used, because DITA does
	 not have a clear method for doing so, and the logic of linking to metadata is
	 not strong. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>ditamap<indexterm>linking
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cross-references<indexterm>to
				ditamap</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>linking<indexterm>to
				ditamap</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>xref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>xref</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Creating a cross-reference to a ditamap may at first seem to be
		unremarkable. On reflection, however, cross-referencing a ditamap is
		problematic. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A ditamap is a specification for a published document, or for part of a
		document (if nested or modular ditamaps are being used). As such, the ditamap
		itself contains no content, and it doesn't make sense to link to nothing! More
		logically, the cross-reference should be to the first topic referenced by the
		ditamap. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The solution is not as clear-cut as that, unfortunately. There are times
		when you might want to cross-reference a chapter, as in 
		<q>described in Chapter 2</q>. Chapter infrastructures are defined in the
		map, and although they are not content, they are still likely targets of a
		cross-reference. In any case, DITA topics are intended to be context-agnostic,
		so cross-referencing a ditamap would restrict that topic's use to publications
		where the referenced ditamap is also included. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Further, DITA has no clear mechanism for cross-referencing ditamap 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Avoid cross-references to ditamaps. If required, it
		may be better to cross-reference to the published version of the ditamap, such
		as the PDF location or Web URL. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_97DBF4B736CC4CF9A0FD4CB4CCF5BBF4"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/14204" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">As far as I know, the
		  meaning of an xref to a ditamap is not defined by the standard. That may change
		  in future versions of the standard. Until that happens, you can define it to
		  mean anything you like in your sphere of influence. In my sphere of influence,
		  I forbid xrefs to ditamaps on the grounds that "undefined" only means
		  "undefined for now" and doesn't mean "implementation-defined". If authors want
		  to reference an entire other publication then I make them reference the
		  rendered version (pdf, chm) and set scope="external". If DITA-OT does any
		  useful processing of an xref to a ditamap, then it's probably serendipity
		  rather than by design. Just another one of those ways in which xref is
		  underspecified... 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
