<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9148" status="new"> 
  <title>Cross-referencing a step</title> 
  <shortdesc>Cross-references to steps are accomplished with the 
	 <synph>xref</synph> element with a 
	 <synph>type</synph> attribute of 
	 <userinput>li</userinput>. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>cross-references<indexterm>to
				steps</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>step
			 references</indexterm><indexterm>references<indexterm>to
				steps</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>xref element</indexterm><indexterm>step
			 element<indexterm>cross-referencing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>xref</indexterm><indexterm>step</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody> 
	 <p>When referring a reader to a step in a task, you should not hard-code
		the step number. In different contexts (such as when the content is filtered or
		transcluded) the step number may be different, or if a step is added, there is
		a high risk that the hard-coded reference won't be updated. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">You must always use the 
		<synph>xref</synph> element to cross-reference steps, with the 
		<synph>type</synph> attribute set to 
		<userinput>li</userinput>. (The 
		<synph>li</synph> element is the ancestor of the 
		<synph>step</synph> element.) 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You can only reference a step by its 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute; therefore, before you can cross-reference to
		a step, you must ensure that the 
		<synph>step</synph> element's 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute has a value. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The following example illustrates how to cross-reference a step number.
		Don't include any text in the 
		<synph>xref</synph> element, otherwise this text will be rendered (in
		most publishing tools), not the step number. 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock>&lt;task id="keypad1"&gt;
...
&lt;step id="a"&gt; 
      &lt;cmd&gt;..&lt;/cmd&gt; 
      &lt;/step&gt; 
      &lt;step&gt; 
      &lt;cmd&gt;Repeat step &lt;xref href="#keypad1/a" type="li" /&gt; until the red light displays.&lt;/cmd&gt; 
      &lt;/step&gt;
...
&lt;/task&gt;</codeblock> 
	 <p>Referring to a step in another topic is almost identical; the difference
		is that the 
		<synph>href</synph> attribute will include the file name of the other
		topic. Again, you must set the 
		<synph>type</synph> attribute to 
		<userinput>li</userinput>. 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock>&lt;cmd&gt;Complete step &lt;xref href="c_panel.dita#keypad2/b" type="li" /&gt; of 
the PIN recovery procedure.&lt;/cmd&gt; 
</codeblock> 
	 <section id="section_510B44102C9147E5A259E60EF78E4082"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
			href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/13292" scope="external" format="html">Use &lt;xref
		  href="#thistopicid/step1id" type="li"/&gt;. Editors might not put the @type
		  attribute on. It is supposed to default to the right type in processing, but
		  DITA-OT didn't always do so. I recommend setting it explicitly. 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/12440" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Beth Thoenen, quoting Judy Kessler, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p>Linking within a Topic 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Insert a cross-reference to a step or other element within the same
			 topic. Prerequisites In the DITA map or search results, right-click the topic
			 that will contain the link and choose Edit (or Open and Lock). Use this
			 procedure to insert an automatically updated reference to any element in the
			 current topic that has an ID. 
		  </p> 
		  <ol id="ol_71E684226D6343D9BC6568DADA917B26"> 
			 <li id="li_E75F9C4CD0554932B63D060EBAC5E27E">Put the cursor
				immediately inside the step element you want to reference, before the
				&lt;cmd&gt; element. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_C2F03E8507EA44E585D456C0DD00F48B">In Attribute Inspector,
				enter a value in the id attribute for this step, if it does not have one
				already. Imported topics originally developed in XMetaL usually have IDs on
				steps, listitems, tables, figures, and some other elements. Elements in topics
				created in the CMS do not have an ID unless you add one. Enter any text that
				identifies the step, for example, copy_ref_step. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_6D6F8F0EE702450DAB3B8C9134E1BCAB">Save. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_6E35060F61734B0F88405D38E59AB234">With the cursor
				immediately inside in the step element , right-click and choose Copy Reference.
				
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_BA6F0A85501542F9846BD397BEFEF065">Insert an &lt;xref&gt;
				element where you want the link to appear. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_49A98AA2BF9440D38B8FD11D37826FFE">In Attribute Inspector,
				paste the copied reference into the href attribute of the &lt;xref&gt;. The
				href looks something like this:
				LDO:asc1213046590572.xml#asc1213046590572/copy_ref_step 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_8A6FA12EF5FE465085ECD75C3F5A5381">Delete everything before
				the pound sign (#) from the href. Now the href looks something like this:
				#asc1213046590572/copy_ref_step 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_35F1A0425E244D728A27661BE324DC59">Release the topic. 
			 </li> 
		  </ol> 
		  <p>In Web and Eclipse output, the step number appears. In PDF output
			 the step number appears followed by the page number. Example: Cross-reference
			 to a step A cross-reference to the step in this topic that instructs you to
			 Copy Reference contains an &lt;xref&gt; element with no link text in the
			 source. In built output it looks like this: 4, with just the step number in Web
			 and Eclipse, and the step number and page in PDF. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<note>In the DITA Open Toolkit at least, a 
		  <synph>type</synph> attribute of st<userinput><?xm-replace_text User Input?></userinput>ep
		  will yield the same results as a typ<synph></synph>e attribute of 
		  <userinput>li</userinput>. 
		</note> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
