<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D2362" status="new"> 
  <title>Links in 
	 <synph>related-links</synph> sections</title> 
  <shortdesc>When a topic requires cross-references to other topics where those
	 cross-references will always be valid in the context of the topic, they should
	 be contained within a 
	 <synph>related-links</synph> section after the topic body. In all other
	 cases, cross-references should be defined in the relationship table of the
	 ditamap. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>related-links
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>related-links</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cross-references<indexterm>related
				links</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>linking<indexterm>related-links
				section</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>hyperlinks<indexterm>related-links
				section</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>There are three methods through which links can be included in DITA
		content: 
	 </p> 
	 <ul id="ul_7EAA209EE597429DACE250578E25058E"> 
		<li id="li_BAF9FEDD4D344FDBAA740E7E2EF3DEB1">inserting 
		  <synph>xref</synph> elements at any point within the body of a topic 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_618CFD276FFC4060A5ABEF33AD9517EC">inserting links in a 
		  <synph>related-links</synph> section within a topic, outside the body
		  of the topic 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_5EA6DFE634F14E76910AEDC8BECF9C94">defining link relationships
		  between topics through relationship tables in the ditamap 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 <p importance="high">The most effective method for most documents is the
		relationship table approach. However, if the cross-references will always be
		appropriate for the topic, regardless of the context in which it is used, then
		the 
		<synph>related-links</synph> section can be used. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>related-links</synph> section is technically metadata, and is
		structured within the topic but outside the body section. It is made up of 
		<synph>link</synph> elements, which are similar in function to an 
		<synph>xref</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_8F6AB22B293D44B590EAF827C670BF7E"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Ament 2003, p14"> To help users navigate modular content,
		  you link standalone content modules with cognitive bridges, or
		  cross-references... . When separating different levels of information into
		  distinct content modules, [you] physically separate modules that are
		  thematically related. To make the relationships between the related modules
		  explicit, you add cross-references that link the modules. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Erik Hennum, correspondence to DITA TC List,
 ehennum@us.ibm.com"> 
		  <p>The value of link patterns or categories for structuring a set of
			 articles shows up consistently in the Information Architecture and Hypertext
			 Theory literature. For instance: 
		  </p> 
		  <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_FB391B37D85041F3849C5F087DA4B95B"> 
			 <li
			  id="li_63AC5B67427A45459E925326CFB6D6BC">http://www.eastgate.com/patterns/Patterns.html
				
			 </li> 
			 <li
			  id="li_2B2D99828E6A47D7A50E8607740D3A9C">http://www.firstmonday.org/issues/issue7_10/harrison/
				
			 </li> 
			 <li
			  id="li_09C2E60BB85E4A0895B03FC7C67974CE">http://www.useit.com/alertbox/20050103.html
				(see the Typed Links and Explicit Structure sections) 
			 </li> 
			 <li
			  id="li_B61E754EAE284A9AAFF6DD176D6B6E26">http://www8.org/w8-papers/5b-hypertext-media/improving/improving.html
				
			 </li> 
			 <li
			  id="li_BFA0A12D8CE24C04A080E9C9430DA5CC">http://journals.tdl.org/jodi/article/view/jodi-26/27
				
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		  <p>The last one gives the cognitive and linguistic basis for the value
			 of link patterns. "Relations might be specified in various directions ... by
			 assigning separate information to the links. In this way, the reader might be
			 spared the frustration of spending time clicking without retrieving desired
			 information." 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/8890" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Severin Foreman, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p>I don't have an HCI study to cite, but I do have some good anecdotal
			 evidence to share. Our team is migrating from HTML help to DITA. The legacy
			 content makes liberal use of inline links, so when I suggested that we use DITA
			 maps and reltables for all our linking, many people on the team objected (and
			 some still do). But recently, one of the strongest proponents of inline links
			 had a complete reversal on the subject. The following is excerpts from an
			 e-mail thread that described why he changed his mind. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>From his first message: 
			 <q>I'm starting to question if having links within the text is
				effective. Many times when I'm reading through a help topic, I just skip over
				these links continue reading the topic. If I do click on them as I read, I
				really disrupt the flow of information and often have to page back to find my
				place on the previous topic. They are annoying and actually disrupt my
				understand of the topic. 
			 </q> 
		  </p> 
		  <p>He also wrote this after I asked him why he had changed his mind: 
			 <q>What sparked this change is that my home computer nearly fried
				here a month ago, so I spent a lot of time reading help topics. It is a
				different world when you are using the help, instead of creating it. I found
				the info I needed, but wow, using the help was stressful. Was I entering the
				right words? Should I click on that link, or will I find everything I need on
				this topic? What should I do? I need to solve this problem... 
			 </q> 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
