<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_816100820F854C74B47BBBB133710971" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Structure of the 
	 <synph>related-links</synph> section</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>related-links</synph> section of a topic contains 
	 <synph>link</synph> elements which can optionally be grouped into 
	 <synph>linklist</synph> and 
	 <synph>linkpool</synph> container elements. The structure of those elements
	 influences how the links are displayed in the output, and how metadata
	 attributes for the links are managed. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>related-links</indexterm><indexterm>link</indexterm><indexterm>linktext</indexterm><indexterm>linklist</indexterm><indexterm>linkpool</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>related-links
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>link element</indexterm><indexterm>linklist
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>linkpool element</indexterm><indexterm>related
			 topics</indexterm><indexterm>hyperlinks</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>One of the methods of defining links in DITA content is through a 
		<synph>related-links</synph> section at the end of a topic, outside the
		topic body. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>related-links</synph> section has the following structure: 
	 </p> 
	 <p> 
		<codeblock>&lt;topic&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;...&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;body&gt;
  ...
  &lt;/body&gt;
  &lt;related-links&gt;
    &lt;link href="<varname>URL of referenced topic or resource</varname>"&gt;
      &lt;linktext&gt;<varname>Display text for link</varname>&lt;/linktext&gt;
    &lt;/link&gt;
    &lt;link&gt;...&lt;/link&gt;
    .
    .
    .
  &lt;/related-links&gt;
&lt;/topic&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>To better 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		links, the link elements can be grouped into 
		<synph>linklist</synph> and 
		<synph>linkpool</synph> container elements. These container elements
		allow metadata attributes to be applied to a set of links as a whole. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if you wanted to nominate that all links in a 
		<synph>linklist</synph> have a 
		<synph>product</synph> attribute of 
		<userinput>lite</userinput>, you could use the following mark-up: 
		<codeblock>&lt;related-links&gt;
  &lt;linklist product="lite"&gt;
    &lt;link&gt;...&lt;/link&gt;
    &lt;link&gt;...&lt;/link&gt;
    .
    .
  &lt;/linklist&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>linklist</synph> container is used when the order of the links is
		important, as that order will be maintained when the content is processed to an
		output format. The 
		<synph>linkpool</synph> container does not imply any particular order.
		(In this respect, 
		<synph>linklist</synph> is like an ordered list, while 
		<synph>linkpool</synph> is like an unordered list.) 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When in a 
		<synph>linklist</synph> container, links in the output will typically be
		displayed without a heading, and in the same order as the links are defined in
		the 
		<synph>linklist</synph>. When in a 
		<synph>linkpool</synph> container, or when not contained (as simple link
		elements within the 
		<synph>related-links</synph> section), links in the output will be
		grouped according to their information type (such as under headings of 
		<q>Related Concepts</q>, 
		<q>Related Tasks</q>, 
		<q>Related References</q>, and 
		<q>Related Information</q>). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Within the 
		<synph>link</synph> structure, the 
		<synph>linktext</synph> element, which defines the display text for the
		link, is optional. When there is no 
		<synph>linktext</synph> element, the title of the referenced DITA topic
		will be used as the display text for the link. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">You should not include the 
		<synph>linktext</synph> element when linking to DITA topics. This will
		force the title of the target to be used as the link text, and ensures that the
		link text matches the target topic title. However, for links to non-DITA
		resources such as Web sites or PDF documents, you should define the link text. 
	 </p> 
	 <note type="note"> 
		<p>Some sample links are included in the 
		  <synph>related-links</synph> section of this topic. These links will
		  only appear in hypertext versions of 
		  <ph
			conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.
		  The code for the sample links is: 
		<table id="table_0C253A1C45864754B49EED625D344D5F" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
		  
		  <tgroup cols="2" colsep="1"><colspec colnum="1"
			 colname="col1" colwidth="*"/><colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"
			 colwidth="*"/><thead> 
				<row> 
				  <entry colname="col1">Type of link 
				  </entry> 
				  <entry colname="col2">Code 
				  </entry> 
				</row></thead> 
			 <tbody> 
				<row> 
				  <entry colname="col1">Link to another DITA topic with no 
					 <synph>linktext</synph> element 
				  </entry> 
				  <entry colname="col2"> 
					 <codeblock>&lt;link href="c_Scope_Attribute.dita"&gt;
&lt;/link&gt;</codeblock> 
				  </entry> 
				</row> 
				<row> 
				  <entry colname="col1">Link to another DITA topic with a 
					 <synph>linktext</synph> element 
				  </entry> 
				  <entry colname="col2"> 
					 <codeblock>&lt;link href="c_Scope_Attribute.dita&gt;
  &lt;linktext&gt;Alternative link to Scope Attribute
  &lt;/linktext&gt;
&lt;/link&gt;</codeblock> 
				  </entry> 
				</row> 
				<row> 
				  <entry colname="col1">Link to an external Web site 
				  </entry> 
				  <entry colname="col2"> 
					 <codeblock>&lt;link format="html" scope="external" 
href="http://www.hyperwrite.com/"&gt;
  &lt;linktext&gt;HyperWrite Web Site&lt;/linktext&gt;
&lt;/link&gt;</codeblock> 
				  </entry> 
				</row> 
			 </tbody> 
		  </tgroup> 
		</table> The three sample links are included in the 
		<synph>related-links</synph> section twice: the first set of links is not
		contained in a container element, while the second set of links is contained
		within a 
		<synph>linklist</synph> element. 
		</p> 
	 </note> 
	 <section id="section_332238823F2449B1BFF19604FEEF98E9"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Kris Eberlein, e-mail to DITA TC, 2 Dec 2009">General best
		  practice is to only use &lt;linktext&gt; when you are constructing a link to a
		  non-DITA resource. If the link is to a DITA resource, the processor will use
		  the content of the &lt;title&gt; element for the link. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
  <related-links> 
	 <link href="c_Scope_Attribute.dita" type="concept" format="dita"
	 scope="local"><?xm-replace_text Linking in a new window?>
	 </link> 
	 <link href="c_Scope_Attribute.dita"> 
		<linktext>Alternative link to Scope Attribute 
		</linktext> 
	 </link> 
	 <link format="html" scope="external" href="http://www.hyperwrite.com/"> 
		<linktext>HyperWrite Web Site 
		</linktext> 
	 </link> 
	 <linklist> 
		<link href="c_Scope_Attribute.dita" type="concept" format="dita"
		scope="local"><?xm-replace_text Linking in a new window?>
		</link> 
		<link href="c_Scope_Attribute.dita"> 
		  <linktext>Alternative linklist to Scope Attribute 
		  </linktext> 
		</link> 
		<link format="html" scope="external" href="http://www.hyperwrite.com/"> 
		  <linktext>HyperWrite Web Site 
		  </linktext> 
		</link> 
	 </linklist> 
  </related-links> 
</concept> 
