<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_0D4E2C09D8D54D17A857954732B0C79A" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Types of cross-references</title> 
  <shortdesc>A cross-reference is used in DITA to link or associate one piece
	 of content with another. The cross-reference (<synph>xref</synph>) element is
	 the primary mechanism for cross-referencing, but other elements also have
	 cross-referencing functions. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>step</indexterm><indexterm>xref</indexterm><indexterm>link</indexterm><indexterm>glossref</indexterm><indexterm>lq</indexterm><indexterm>source</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>href</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cross-references</indexterm><indexterm>hyperlinks</indexterm><indexterm>linking</indexterm><indexterm>xref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>href attribute</indexterm><indexterm>glossref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>lq element</indexterm><indexterm>link
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>source element</indexterm><indexterm>page
			 references</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In DITA, cross-referencing is more than simple hyperlinking, or
		references to page numbers or section titles. Topics, paragraphs, sections,
		steps, figures, tables and many other DITA elements can be cross-referenced,
		along with resources external to the DITA content such as Web addresses,
		network files, and e-mail addresses. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Cross-references are implemented primarily through the 
		<synph>xref</synph> element and its 
		<synph>href</synph> attribute. Also key to cross-referencing in DITA is
		the 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute: only elements with an 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute can be cross-referenced. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Cross-referencing features can sometimes be found in unexpected places.
		For example, the 
		<synph>lq</synph> element includes an 
		<synph>href</synph> attribute, used for storing the URL of the source of
		the quotation, if applicable. The 
		<synph>source</synph> element in a topic's prolog and the 
		<synph>link</synph> element in the 
		<synph>related-links</synph> section also have an 
		<synph>href</synph> attribute to store the URL of the original source of
		the topic content, if applicable. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Cross-references to different elements are resolved, when the collection
		is processed (published), in different ways. For example, a cross-reference to
		a 
		<synph>step</synph> element may be rendered as the step number in the
		output. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The DITA syntax for referencing elements within the same topic is 
		<codeph>#<varname>[topicid]</varname>/<varname>[elementid]</varname></codeph>.
		
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Avoid generic cross-references to simple paragraphs;
		instead, cross-references should be to the topic as a whole. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
