<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_6E8A4D9D94AA450EA4DAE3CC5C70BF9A" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Attributes with multiple values</title> 
  <shortdesc>You can have more than one value for a select attribute. The
	 different values are stored in the one attribute, separated by spaces.
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>conditional
				processing</indexterm><indexterm>multiple
				values</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata attributes<indexterm>multiple
				values</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>multiple values in
			 attributes</indexterm><indexterm>delimiting attribute
			 values</indexterm><indexterm>select attributes<indexterm>multiple
				values</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In many cases, you may want to apply more than one value to a metadata
		attribute. For example, a paragraph may relate to audiences of both 
		<userinput>admin</userinput> and 
		<userinput>manager</userinput>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Attributes can take more than one value. Spaces are used as 
		<term>delimiters</term>, to separate the different values. For example, a
		paragraph with two audience values would be marked up as: 
		<codeblock>&lt;p audience="admin manager"&gt;The installation...&lt;/p&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Obviously, then, individual values of metadata
		attributes must not contain spaces. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_2EF15A956EF14781B01F79983AA156A8"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Phil Grisier, Yahoo! FrameMaker DITA Users Group" scope="external" format="html"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/framemaker-dita/message/3059"> In DITA
		  by design, the filtering attributes @product, @audience, etc, use space as the
		  separator between different filtering values. This lets you apply multiple
		  filtering criteria to elements, just as you can apply multiple FrameMaker
		  conditions to the same piece of text. For example: 
		  <sl> 
			 <sli>product="Basic Version-1" 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli id="li_4908740E9DC448E4BD3415E9AEF2DEA1">product="DeLuxe
				Version-1" 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli id="li_4DE24177557443229F652D88D6865D52">product="Basic
				Version-2" 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli id="li_7668DD308265425988307D123417CCA4">product="DeLuxe
				Version_2" 
			 </sli> 
		  </sl> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
