<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_049B0A0D9ECA486D9DC9E1F9B33361EC" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Conditional processing concepts</title> 
  <shortdesc>When DITA content is processed to a reading format, rules to
	 exclude or highlight some of the content can be defined in a 
	 <term>ditaval</term> file. This 
	 <term>conditional processing</term> requires metadata attributes to be set
	 on DITA elements that may possibly be excluded or highlighted. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>ditaval</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm><indexterm>flagging</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>conditional
				processing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>publishing<indexterm>conditional</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>processing<indexterm>conditional</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata
			 attributes</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>audience</indexterm><indexterm>platform</indexterm><indexterm>product</indexterm><indexterm>otherprops</indexterm><indexterm>rev</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>rev
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>audience
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>platform
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>product
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>otherprops
			 attribute</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p><term>Conditional publishing</term> or 
		<term>conditional processing</term> in DITA is the technique where
		metadata attributes set in the DITA content are used as the basis for 
		<term>filtering</term> (excluding) or 
		<term>flagging</term> (highlighting) portions of the content during the
		transformation process. The rules for what to filter or flag are typically
		defined in a separate 
		<term>DITA values</term> (<term>ditaval</term>) file, which is nominated
		when the transformation process is started. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Flagging is a method of highlighting where the content is highlighted
		with a symbol or formatting. The rules for flagging are typically defined in
		the 
		<term>ditaval</term> file. 
	 </p>
	 <p>Nearly all DITA elements, from topics through to inline elements, have a
		common set of metadata attributes intended for conditional processing: 
	 <ul id="ul_8DCB587764E647AF89BC433941EBABD7"> 
		<li id="li_00CAC0EE25BF42B7B1A22B7FD248981C">audience 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_62385C0A0EE04B26A3A839D37A284AC7">platform 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_5F45D50871234242A7F0A17AB45ACEA2">product 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_7FDD286706D94059A97AA5729EDDF124">otherprops 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, a paragraph in a topic might have an 
		<synph>audience</synph> attribute of 
		<userinput>administrator</userinput>, and in some contexts, the content
		needs be published so that any 
		<userinput>administrator</userinput> paragraphs are excluded. In this
		case, the 
		<term>ditaval</term> file would be defined so that elements with an 
		<synph>audience</synph> attribute value of 
		<userinput>administrator</userinput> are excluded. 
	 </p>
	 <p>The 
		<synph>rev</synph> attribute, also common to most DITA elements, can be
		used for flagging, but not filtering. It is used for recording the version or
		revision of the documentation in which the element was added or changed.
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
