<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9139" status="new"> 
  <title>Include and exclude filtering actions</title> 
  <shortdesc>In typical publishing tools, filtering and flagging actions to be
	 taken during processing are defined in a 
	 <term>ditaval</term> file. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>ditaval</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>action</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>action
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm><indexterm>flagging</indexterm><indexterm>excluding<indexterm>content</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>flagging<indexterm>during
				publishing</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The 
		<term>DITA values</term> (<term>ditaval</term>) file is used to specify
		publishing conditions used for processing DITA source into a reading format.
		The condition actions are specified in the 
		<synph>action</synph> attribute of the 
		<synph>prop</synph> element in the ditaval file. Valid action are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>exclude 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>exclude from the output any elements with the specified metadata
			 attributes 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>flag 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>highlight, with a text colour, background colour, or image, any
			 elements with the specified metadata attributes 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>passthough 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>ignore the attribute, but leave the attribute in place in the
			 output 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>include 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>include from the output any elements with the specified metadata
			 attributes 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p> An example of a snippet of ditaval code to flag elements with a 
		<synph>product</synph> attribute of 
		<userinput>impress</userinput> with a small image at the start of the
		element is: 
		<codeblock>&lt;prop att="product" val="impress" action="flag"&gt;
  &lt;startflag imageref="delta_olive.gif"&gt;
    &lt;alt-text&gt;Start of product - Impress&lt;/alt-text&gt;
  &lt;/startflag&gt;
&lt;/prop&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Despite there being an 
	 <option>include</option> action in the ditaval logic, there is no purpose
	 for this action. By default, 
	 <b>all</b> content is included. Even within a nested set of elements, a
	 higher level element marked as 
	 <option>include</option> will have no affect even if lower level elements
	 are marked with 
	 <option>exclude</option>. By default, no content is flagged. 
	 </p> 
	 <p> Attributes are used to mark elements that are specific or individual to
		a particular product, platform, audience or other requirement. You only mark up
		those elements that you want the ability to exclude or flag. 
	 </p> 
	 <p status="changed">If you are using multiple conditions (that is, more
		than one value in the same attribute, such as 
		<codeph>audience="admin manager"</codeph>), only if all exclude
		conditions are satisfied will the element will be excluded from the output. In
		other words, all exclude conditions have to be satisfied for the element to be
		excluded from the output. So if a paragraph was marked with values of 
		<userinput>admin</userinput> and 
		<userinput>manager</userinput>, and the ditaval specified that 
		<userinput>admin</userinput> should be excluded, but 
		<userinput>manager</userinput> included, the paragraph would be included.
		
	 </p>
	 <note status="new">You can change this default inclusive behaviour of the
		ditaval to exclusive by setting the following property as the first node under
		the 
		<synph>val</synph> element in the ditaval file:
		<codeblock>&lt;prop action="exclude" /&gt;</codeblock>
	 </note> 
	 <section id="section_4E19F954787344F39F00501238873499"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Michael Priestley, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/1923" scope="external" format="html">The current
		  spec does explicitly say that the default should be to include information, not
		  exclude it. I believe the thought behind the current practice is that it can be
		  dangerous to delete content by default, especially in situations where you are
		  creating multi-purpose documents, for example targetting multiple audiences.
		  One possible solution is to make it easier to set default behavior by
		  attribute, so that for example you can say product-specific information should
		  be excluded by default, whereas audience-specific information should be
		  included by default. But I would be reluctant to change the overall default for
		  the processing since the change would not be backwards-compatible with the
		  existing spec, and would break any users following the existing documented
		  practice of explicitly excluding values. Giving more control over the default
		  would be backwards compatible, changing the default would not be. 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/200507/msg00076.html" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Michael Priestley, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list"> 
		  <p>For what it's worth, we made a deliberate decision early in DITA's
			 design to exclude inverse conditionals, which reversed direction for us at IBM
			 from over two decades of full boolean conditional support. So this is one we
			 can probably chalk up to a difference of opinion rather than immaturity. Our
			 reasoning was roughly: - in the case you cite, it is equally likely that the
			 new product falls into exception category. "Not x" is actually very odd
			 metadata - it's based not on knowledge of the thing itself, but knowledge of
			 the entire set of values, and patterns within that set. While positive
			 conditions can be more unwieldy, they are much more robust - ie they are
			 specific to one thing at a time, and hence insulated from changes elsewhere in
			 the same set. For example, if a warning applies to "productA", then it applies
			 until productA itself changes. But if the warning applies to every product
			 "exceptProductA", then it can be rendered invalid by any product changes, or by
			 any new product added to the mix. - while full boolean conditions enabled
			 individual writers to be more efficient, they caused major problems on shared
			 content, and when content changed ownership; or even when the original author
			 had a bad day. The positive value syntax is more verbose but also much easier
			 to parse and easier for humans to understand. - finally, DITA's major support
			 for singlesourcing is not via conditional processing at all, but via maps. So
			 in the worst case scenario, if the conditions simply become too painful to
			 manage (perhaps as below) the author can cut losses by creating two versions of
			 the topic, one for common use, and one for use only by the exception product.
			 The two topics can even share common content, via conref, without interfering
			 with each other or using complex conditions. The logic is punted to the map
			 level, and the actual content is insulated from changes to the conditions. The
			 basic point here is that there is a cost for having complex conditions. Because
			 of DITA's topic-based architecture, reuse above the topic level can be
			 accomplished via maps, and so the benefit of conditions in general is
			 considerably reduced, while their cost remains the same. This led us to the
			 current model: simple support for positive conditions only. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
	 <section id="section_52537A0D153E47C9890ADD372B009989"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Confusion</title> 
		<p> Of course, filtering is ultimately dependent upon the processing
		  (because you could write your own XSL-T transformers to do whatever you wanted
		  with attributes, couldn't you?). However, the DITA OT is seen as the model for
		  processing, and DITA OT 1.4 introduced "negative values" in the ditaval, to
		  indicate processing should filter out unknown values. "For example, in prior
		  releases, if you had audiences A, B, and C, they were all included by default.
		  You can now exclude one or more by default. If audience C is defined and
		  included, the unspecified values A and B can be excluded." 
		</p> 
		<p> The "exclude" action in the ditaval specifies that content should be
		  excluded from the output if all values in the particular attribute are
		  excluded. That seems to mean that if the attribute was rev="beta1 beta2", then
		  if the beta1 was set to exclude, it would still be included, but if beta1 and
		  beta2 were both excluded, then the element would be excluded. 
		</p> 
		<p> More information at: 
		  <xref
			href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/archspec/condproc.html"
			scope="external" format="html"><?xm-replace_text http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/archspec/condproc.html?></xref>
		  
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
