<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9085" status="new"> 
  <title>Limiting the use of conditions</title> 
  <shortdesc>You should take care to limit the complexity of conditions that
	 you apply to content. Context-agnostic writing is often a better approach. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>context-agnostic
			 writing</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing<indexterm>limiting</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>condition
			 attributes<indexterm>limiting</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>select
			 attributes<indexterm>limiting</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>metadata
			 attributes<indexterm>limiting</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In traditional publishing processes, 
		<term>conditions</term> or 
		<term>build tags</term> set on document elements have been a key enabler
		of conditional publishing. Technical communicators working with tools such as 
		<keyword>FrameMaker</keyword> and 
		<keyword>RoboHelp</keyword> sometimes create complicated nested
		conditions, so that numerous permutations of a document can be produced from
		the one project. In a DITA authoring environment, which is modular and 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_library_focussed"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		rather than 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_doc_focussed"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		there are additional, more flexible, mechanisms for single-sourcing. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In a DITA environment, there should be greater focus on writing more 
		<term>agnostically</term>, so that complicated conditions are not
		necessary. DITA encourages more information analysis than earlier approaches to
		documentation, and during that analysis, authors should investigate whether
		context-agnostic writing may be a better approach than very context-specific
		writing where conditions become overly important. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if a topic includes a product name, which may vary from
		publication to publication, you may be able to phrase your content so that the
		specific product name is not used. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
