<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9076" status="new"> 
  <title>Print versus non-print metadata</title> 
  <shortdesc>You can use condition attributes in topic elements, the 
	 <synph>print</synph> attribute in the 
	 <synph>topicref</synph> element, separate ditamaps, or a combination of
	 these approaches when you need to produce different print and non-print
	 versions of the same document. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>print
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>otherprops
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>audience
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>product attribute</indexterm><indexterm>select
			 attributes</indexterm><indexterm>condition
			 attributes</indexterm><indexterm>ditamap</indexterm><indexterm>print vs
			 non-print</indexterm><indexterm>Web vs
			 print</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>print</indexterm><indexterm>otherprops</indexterm><indexterm>audience</indexterm><indexterm>product</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>topicref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topicref
			 element</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>There are a number of ways of differentiating 
		<q>Web-only</q> and 
		<q>print-only</q> content, or other medium-dependent conditions. The best
		method will depend on the semantics involved, and the particular scenario. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In many cases, marking up content using 
		<synph>otherprops</synph> attribute values of, for example, 
		<userinput>manual_only</userinput> and 
		<userinput>web_only</userinput> may be appropriate. If the reason for the
		differentiation relates to the different audiences for print and Web
		deliverables, then the audience attribute would be a better choice. In the same
		way, if the reason for differentiation was that you are producing two separate
		document products, such as a book to be sold on the Web and a book to be sold
		in bookshops, the 
		<synph>product</synph> attribute is more suitable. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element in the ditamap has a 
		<synph>print</synph> attribute with valid values of 
	 <option>yes</option> and 
	 <option>no</option>. If you are simply wanting to exclude complete topics
	 from the print version of a document, this attribute should be used. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If you have some common and some different topics for print and Web
		versions, you may find that creating two ditamaps, one for print and one for
		Web, is a better approach than applying conditions to the 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements in a single ditamap. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_D2320AEA46FD42C6B43EB27499A3D663"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Andy Hall, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/6452" scope="external" format="html">Is it good
		  practice to use @otherprops to markup content for web and PDF outputs (e.g.,
		  using otherprops values of "manual_only" for PDF deliverables, and "web_only"
		  for HTML deliverables)? Or are there better, smarter ways to generate outputs
		  for HTML and PDF outputs? 
		</lq> 
		<p>Deborah Pickett observed that although it's not wrong, and although
		  there may be occasions when it's the best way, the nature of the content will
		  dictate whether it's right or not. 
		</p> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/6463" scope="external" format="html"> 
		  <p>If web_only and manual_only are independent of each other (i.e., you
			 could have one or both or neither set) then conditional processing is a good
			 fit. But given their names, they look like they are either/or exactly-one
			 choices (what I call "disjoint-union" from set theory). Conditional processing
			 is a poor solution for disjoint unions, for several reasons, one in this case
			 being that you have to police correct use of only one inclusion in the ditaval
			 file. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>For comparison, what I'd do in that situation is have two separate
			 maps. They would share almost all of their content via mapref, except &gt; for
			 the bits where they differ. I'd consider using the @print &gt; attribute on
			 topicrefs that I don't want to turn up in the print output. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Su-Laine Yeo, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/19405" scope="external" format="html">No, you
		  can't use the @print attribute on most elements. In general, marking content as
		  PDF-only or as help-only is considered kind of philosophically wrong by XML
		  purists. The ideal way to go about it is to ask yourself why you'd want
		  something to be PDF-only or help-only and then use markup which more directly
		  reflects the reason. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Sowmya Kannan, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">Hi, Are there any
		  best practices / guidelines for content that may be delivered as HTML and PDF?
		  For e.g. it would be better to not include object tags to run applets, flash
		  objects etc. directly in the topic. Topics with object tags may not be suitable
		  for pdf outputs. How do we handle such cases? Should we include conditional
		  text based on type of output? What are some other cases to watch out for? 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
