<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9096" status="new"> 
  <title>Placement of 
	 <synph>indexterm</synph> elements</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>indexterm</synph> element is pure metadata, and does not display.
	 You should place index entries in the 
	 <synph>prolog</synph> section of the topic, or in the 
	 <synph>topicmeta</synph> section of the 
	 <synph>topicref</synph> in the ditamap only if the term is specific to a
	 particular publication. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>indexing</indexterm><indexterm>indexterm
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>indexterm</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The alphabetical index of a publication is derived, during the
		publishing process, from index keyword terms placed by the author throughout
		topics in the document. Index keyword terms are defined through the 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>DITA allows 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> elements to be placed in: 
	 <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_B66442F2790D4737A22F08DDFAFA6634"> 
		<li id="li_9070E85A05994E83AA5B02A792F66A01">the 
		  <synph>topicref</synph> in the ditamap 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_789D0BFD643148929AB1F088BEDB6417">the 
		  <synph>prolog</synph> in the topic 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_68BD2FA3BD6543ED946BD9091596BD7F">the 
		  <synph>shortdesc</synph> (and 
		  <synph>abstract</synph>) in the topic 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_863429D7548B40DCA4AF264761745237">the 
		  <synph>body</synph> of the topic 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>However, having index entries scattered throughout the text creates
		maintenance problems, and may lead to difficulties in translation and
		processing. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Where possible, 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> elements should be placed in the topic 
		<synph>prolog</synph> section, outside the body of the topic content. In
		the 
		<synph>prolog</synph>, index entries must be contained within a 
		<synph>keywords</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">When specific to a publication (and therefore not
		always applicable to the topic), the 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> elements should be placed in the 
		<synph>topicmeta</synph> section within the 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element in the ditamap. An example of this may be
		a term that is used by one 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		but not others, where different ditamaps define output for different 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisations"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.
		
	 </p> 
	 <p>Index terms should only be placed within the body text where topics are
		relatively long. In such cases, index entries in the output might otherwise
		point to the start of a section of content, rather than the point at which the
		term is mentioned. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">When you need to place the index entry within the body
		of a topic, follow these placement guidelines: 
	 <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_2853CC7EDD9C4F2AB3E976A9F1851550"> 
		<li id="li_CA894B04B7AB46769DDA0CF01200D946">for block-level (paragraph)
		  elements: immediately following the start tag of the containing element 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_7248546A5AD84CD99A6CE9FF5364E118">at sentence level:
		  immediately preceding the sentence 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_26D63E870DE3438CBE71AAFF61BC569D">at word or phrase level:
		  immediately preceding the text 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <note>The contents of 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> elements are never rendered in the output,
		including when the 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> elements are inline within the body of the
		content. Thus, the mark-up: 
		<codeph>&lt;p&gt;The EJ25
		  &lt;indexterm&gt;turborcharger&lt;/indexterm&gt; forced
		  induction...&lt;/p&gt;</codeph> will render as 
		<systemoutput>The EJ25 forced induction...</systemoutput>. 
	 </note> 
	 <p importance="high">In some cases, you may feel you want to use an 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> at a particular point in the document where 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> is not allowed. Although you may be able to
		technically work around the problem by inserting a phrase (<synph>ph</synph>)
		element and then inserting the 
		<synph>indexterm</synph> element in the 
		<synph>ph</synph> element, do not do this. Only insert an index term
		where the element is valid. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_F86D31A5B6E0471EB9452145DC8BF564"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/16905" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="cathywildhaber, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p>When we began using indexterms, we used them within the body of
			 topics, not realizing that words tagged as &lt;indexterm&gt; are stripped from
			 output. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>We have since switched to placing indexterms within the topic
			 prolog. However, for those items we tagged prior to instituting this best
			 practice: Is there any way to make words tagged as 
			 <synph>indexterm</synph> show in output, perhaps through modification
			 of the transforms? 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Scott Prentice, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17357" scope="external" format="html">The only
		  drawback of using indexterms in the prolog is that for non-general index
		  entries in long topics you're likely to have misaligned page numbers in printed
		  output. The page numbers associated with an index entry will be the page with
		  the topic heading, and the actual term/concept being indexed may be many pages
		  away. If your readers are aware of this indexing method (page numbers point to
		  the heading that contains the entry), this may not be a problem, but some
		  readers may just give up on using your index if it seems to be incorrect. As
		  with many things in DITA, it's a trade off that you need to decide based on
		  your content and audience. 
		</lq> 
		<p>The counter-argument to Scott Prentice's view is that best practice
		  for chunking points towards small topics, so the instance of a large topic that
		  my render across multiple pages in a page layout option should be rare. In such
		  cases, inline index terms would be appropriate. 
		</p> 
		<lq reftitle="Anna van Raaphorst, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17353" scope="external" format="html"> I agree
		  with Steve. I think the cleanest and most reuse-friendly way to index is in a
		  topic prolog. 
		</lq> 
		<lq
		reftitle="OASIS DITA Translation Subcommittee Best Practice for Indexing DITA topics">
		  
		  <p>In the DITA model, Index &lt;indexterm&gt; tags may be inserted
			 inline (meaning before, after, or within sentences or phrases) in most DITA
			 elements, including the block elements of paragraph, bulleted list, and
			 numbered list. They are used to create in-situ index references to the topic or
			 to text within the topic. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Recommended Best Practices: 
		  <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_51AA4C328D4D43C7944666185E7848EB"> 
			 <li id="li_41B6E047070546C18528E4E6AC17B303">Insert index entries
				that refer to entire topics in the prolog element using the &lt;keywords&gt;
				tag... Index entries using the &lt;keywords&gt; tag in the prolog are processed
				to refer to the page that contains the title of the topic. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_F50E6E8389E14AA982A8292B2282F4E8">Insert block-level index
				tags immediately following the start tag of the applicable containing block
				element. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_7222414BC7874464A1E8B56EA0444E0E">Insert a sentence-level
				index tag immediately preceding the sentence in which the text occurs. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_854B7E3331354FE4A94DC81349F6E0C1">Insert word or
				phrase-level index tag immediately preceding the text to which it applies. You
				must retype the word or phrase in the &lt;indexterm&gt; element. If you tag an
				existing word or phrase as an &lt;indexterm&gt;, it will not appear in the
				final text of the block. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_E1ABF2490C4741A09DC6E37C1DDFAD5E">Avoid relocating an
				index tag within a text that has not changed since the last translation when
				you have pointed to a specific word or phrase in the text. A relocated index
				term generates a fuzzy match because the segmentation of the sentence changes
				from that stored in the translation memory. 
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq
		reftitle="OASIS DITA Translation Subcommittee Best Practice for Indexing DITA topics">...inserting
		  an inline element such as &lt;indexterm&gt; anywhere into a block element may
		  present problems for translation... After a word or phrase has been enclosed in
		  the &lt;indexterm&gt; tag, it is no longer recognized as part of the text of
		  the block element. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
	 <section id="section_BFE2CB5BF7004B81B36D10321ED46DFB"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>References</title> 
		<ul id="ul_AED6DB79F480489BBC899BB50D206ECC"> 
		  <li id="li_EFA1A67134864EE0BCFD1D30EADD128C"><cite>Indexing Effectively
				in DITA (SDI Global Solutions Whitepaper),
				http://www.sdicorp.com/Resources/White_Papers.aspx</cite> 
		  </li> 
		</ul> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
