<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_90A7725F4B0A4BF3861F91870752C4FC" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Re-using index entries</title> 
  <shortdesc>You can create a special ditamap which has a sole purpose of being
	 the container for common 
	 <synph>indexterm</synph> elements for re-use in the 
	 <synph>prolog</synph> section of topics (and the 
	 <synph>topicmeta</synph> section of ditamaps, if required) through the 
	 <term>conref</term> feature.
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>indexes</indexterm><indexterm>conref<indexterm>indexes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>indexterm
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>indexterm</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content
			 re-use<indexterm>indexes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>transclusion<indexterm>of
				indexes</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Like most DITA elements, index elements can be re-used through the 
		<term>conref</term> mechanism. There are good reasons why you might want
		to re-use index entries, including consistency of wording and punctuation, and
		reduced translation costs. (Even if used in more than one place, re-used index
		entries only have to be translated once in the conref source.) 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You may find that you can better manage the re-use of index terms if
		they are stored in their own, standalone, ditamap. That index re-use ditamap
		will never be processed, and never embedded in another ditamap; it is only used
		for the purposes of re-use. Such a ditamap file should be named with a prefix
		of 
		<filepath>conref_source_</filepath>. The ditamap could easily be used by
		many authors working in the same team. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The code for an index re-use ditamap would follow the pattern: 
		<codeblock>&lt;map id="conref_index_reuse"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Index Term Re-use&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;topicmeta&gt;
    &lt;keywords&gt;
      &lt;indexterm id="index_turbocharger"&gt;turbocharger&lt;/indexterm&gt;
      &lt;indexterm id="index_keypad_PIN"&gt;keypad
        &lt;indexterm&gt;PIN&lt;/indexterm&gt;
      &lt;/indexterm&gt;
      &lt;indexterm id="index_immobiliser"&gt;immobiliser&lt;/indexterm&gt;
      ...
    &lt;/keywords&gt;
  &lt;/topicmeta&gt;
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_7E76DD9FAD0244D1910E91112DCB1D72"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://www.sdicorp.com/Resources/White_Papers.aspx"
		 reftitle="ndexing Effectively in DITA (SDI Global Solutions Whitepaper)"> 
		  <p> If you have a number of information sets that have the same basic
			 structure and use the same terms, you might notice that the index structure is
			 the same or similar. Much like content that is reused in different information
			 sets, you can use index structures in different information sets. 
		  </p> 
		  <p> In keeping with maximizing the portability of the topics, put the
			 index terms within the metadata for the &lt;topicref&gt; elements for each
			 topic, or in the &lt;topicmeta&gt; element before any &lt;topicref&gt;
			 elements. To minimize the localization costs, use a container, an index-only
			 DITAMAP, to hold the index terms, and conref those structures into the DITAMAP
			 that you are using to create your output. The DITAMAP that contains the index
			 terms never gets processed; its only reason to exist is as a source for
			 reusable index terms. Structured this way, you translate only the index-only
			 DITAMAP; the referring DITAMAPs do not contain any index content. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
