<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D2985" status="new"> 
  <title>The 
	 <synph>outputclass</synph> attribute</title> 
  <shortdesc>When you need an element to appear differently in the output from
	 other elements with the same semantics, you can provide a value in the
	 element's 
	 <synph>outputclass</synph> attribute. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>outputclass</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>HTML<indexterm>class
				attribute</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>CSS</indexterm><indexterm>class
			 attribute<indexterm>HTML</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>outputclass
			 attribute</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Most block and phrase elements in DITA have an 
		<synph>outputclass</synph> attribute. This attribute is used to provide
		output styling information, when necessary. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When published to an HTML-based output format, the value in the 
		<synph>outputclass</synph> attribute of an element will be passed through
		to the CSS 
		<synph>class</synph> attribute in the HTML code. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">You should avoid using the 
		<synph>outputclass</synph> attribute, as it is not a semantic marker. The
		presentation of the output should be determined by the publishing tool
		automatically converting semantic mark-up to formatting rules. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_EDEAC53E1A2F47A18B8FDEC3246295ED"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Supplementary Information</title> 
		<p>When generating HTML output from DITA source through the Open Toolkit,
		  you can't have one topic attached to one CSS and another to another. However,
		  you can use the outputclass element attribute to nominate a non-standard CSS
		  class for a particular heading or paragraph, and then define that different
		  class in the CSS file. That would be the way to make one topic look different
		  from the others. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
