<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D4752" xml:lang="en" status="new"> 
  <title>Conditions versus transclusion</title> 
  <shortdesc>Transclusion, or content referencing, can sometimes achieve the
	 same publishing aim as conditional processing. There are pros and cons for
	 either method. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>transclusion</indexterm><indexterm>variables</indexterm><indexterm>conref</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>There are single-source publishing scenarios where a desired result can
		be achieved with either conditional processing or with transclusion (the 
		<term>conref</term> feature). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if a product name was going to vary between two choices
		from publication to publication, conditional processing with a product
		attribute could be used to exclude the inappropriate product name (to leave the
		appropriate product name). The code might look like: 
		<codeph>&lt;ph product="Liberty"&gt;Liberty&gt;&lt;ph
		  product="Legend"&gt;Legend&lt;/ph&gt;</codeph>. When a ditaval rule of exclude
		elements with a product attribute of Liberty is applied, the remaining code
		would be 
		<codeph>&lt;ph product="Legend"&gt;Legend&lt;/ph&gt;</codeph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The alternative approach would be to use transclusion, such as through a
		content reference (<term>conref</term>) to achieve the same result. The product
		name would not be included directly in the text; instead, a conref would be
		used to draw the phrase in from a separate conref file. The code might look
		like: 
		<codeph>&lt;ph conref="conref_source/product_name" /&gt;</codeph>. When a
		publication for the product with a name of 
		<q>Legend</q> is required, the conref source file could be modified so
		that the conref source code was: 
		<codeph>&lt;ph id="product_name"&gt;Legend&lt;/ph&gt;</codeph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2">The 
		<synph>keyref</synph> feature introduced in 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		makes this second transclusion method a lot easier and cleaner. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There are pros and cons with either approach. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The main advantages of the conditional processing method are: 
	 <ul id="ul_7D3F8F65B099497E80A5F10DEFA61BE9"> 
		<li id="li_382E5C16BB174F87A406964F5C4DCA05">all variations are visible
		  to the author 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_195759CC1D0C49AEA832861062820D81">a review version of the
		  document can be produced that shows all variations 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The main advantages of the transclusion method are: 
	 <ul id="ul_C0363855AC8E47C2802CCB6C89EAAD0C"> 
		<li id="li_BDC87CC9C71E415BAC377C0A7953A9FD">topics are easier for an
		  author to read 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_3FB7BBB64FB44BFFA68AE4A3B4393BD3">doesn't rely on metadata 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_55662528087F4135B161FCF5CAF31102" status="changed">easier to
		  maintain if new variations are introduced (only the conref source file needs to
		  be updated) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_2CD0605F1EAF4ED1A2A1BCCDDA8CA0F7">can cope better with large
		  numbers of conditions 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_E5FDA883622A4FEC8A2E1B3689E21ECA"
	 audience="contributor" status="new"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Eric Armstrong, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/11320" scope="external" format="html"> 
		  <simpletable id="simpletable_BDF7F555ABD44D01A3364EFC5F3B21AD"> 
			 <sthead> 
				<stentry>Characteristic 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Conditionals 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Composition 
				</stentry> 
			 </sthead> 
			 <strow> 
				<stentry>Authoring 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>All variations side by side, easily compared. 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Multiple variations make topic harder to read. Readability
				  requires a sophisticated editor that does smart colour coding. 
				</stentry> 
			 </strow> 
			 <strow> 
				<stentry>Review 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Possible to create a version for review that shows all
				  conditional variants (ideally with the metadata displayed) 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Must review final publications to ensure accuracy. 
				</stentry> 
			 </strow> 
			 <strow> 
				<stentry>Metadata 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>May need to extend the standard set of metadata. Metadata
				  lacks hierarchy, and doesn't support boolean combinations (e.g.
				  platform=solaris /or /linux). 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>No need to extend metadata. No need to deal with metadata
				  restrictions. No need to tag elements with metadata at all. Potential for
				  generating a def'n file from components to simulate boolean logic and
				  hierarchy. 
				</stentry> 
			 </strow> 
			 <strow> 
				<stentry>Design 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Metadata needs to be designed correctly at the outset to
				  minimize the need for change. When change does occur, elements tags with old
				  metadata values need to be modified. 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Anywhere metadata would have been used, a variable is
				  created. Different substitution-sets (definition files) are created to reflect
				  different combinations of (virtual) "metadata". 
				</stentry> 
			 </strow> 
			 <strow> 
				<stentry>Maintenance 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>When change does occur, elements tags with old metadata
				  values need to be modified. 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>When the need for new conditionals surfaces, existing text
				  can be replaced with conrefs. No tags ever change in source text. The
				  production system changes, instead. 
				</stentry> 
			 </strow> 
			 <strow> 
				<stentry>Training 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry> 
				  <p>Writers need to understand the metadata model to tag things
					 correctly (hierarchy, inclusion vs. exclusion, substitutions for boolean
					 combinations) 
				  </p> 
				  <p>Andrea Leszek
					 &lt;http://www.x-pubs.com/site/program_detail/344/&gt; 
				  </p> 
				</stentry> 
				<stentry>Writers need to know location of definition file and need
				  to know when to reference it in lieu of inserting text. 
				</stentry> 
			 </strow> 
		  </simpletable> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Karen Felker, Tom Sawyer Software">We are currently
		  converting all our documentation from Frame into XML. Our company produces
		  software for several different software platforms ©++, .NET, Java, and more).
		  As a result, we have six or more software-platform-based versions of multiple
		  procedures. When these were in Frame, we applied conditions for each software
		  platform. Often we used six or more conditions in one sentence. As you already
		  know, when we convert to DITA, these multi-conditioned sentences have to be
		  duplicated and tagged with an attribute. Now we have one XML file that
		  represents what used to be a one-page task. But because we have so many
		  versions of this task, the file is over 1000 lines long, and still growing. We
		  apply the product attribute to steps to distinguish between the platforms. Some
		  writers want to break the file up into multiple files, based on the software
		  platform. Others argue that all platforms should be kept in one file, because
		  it's still one task. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
