<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D2622" status="new"> 
  <title>Anatomy of a ditamap file</title> 
  <shortdesc>DITA maps files are primarily made up of 
	 <synph>topicref</synph>, 
	 <synph>topichead</synph>, 
	 <synph>topicgroup</synph> and 
	 <synph>topicmeta</synph> elements. DITA map files may also contain
	 relationship tables, made up of rows and cells containing 
	 <synph>topicref</synph> elements. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>topicref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>topicgroup
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>topichead
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>reltable</indexterm><indexterm>relcell
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>relrow element</indexterm><indexterm>relheader
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>topicmeta
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>topicmeta</indexterm><indexterm>topicgroup</indexterm><indexterm>tophchead</indexterm><indexterm>reltable</indexterm><indexterm>relcell</indexterm><indexterm>relrow</indexterm><indexterm>relheader</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>hierarchy</indexterm><indexterm>ditamap</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The vocabulary of a ditamap file is quite simple. The principal element
		is the topic reference (<synph>topicref</synph>), which is simply a link to a
		topic to be included in the collection. The 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements can be nested, allowing you to build a
		hierarchy of links to topics. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Other elements which you can use to refine the hierarchy are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt><synph>topichead</synph> 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>an unlinked heading (or group) in the hierarchy 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt><synph>topicgroup</synph> 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>a way of grouping 
			 <synph>topicref</synph> elements together without affecting the
			 hierarchy (used for applying characteristics to a group of topics at a time) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt><synph>topicmeta</synph> 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>metadata for the topic that applies specifically to the context of
			 the publication defined by the ditamap 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>As well as linking to topics, 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements can link to other ditamaps, thus
		permitting the embedding and re-use of ditamaps. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A ditamap file may also contain one or more 
		<term>relationship table (or reltable)</term> sections. A 
		<term>reltable</term> is made up of rows (<synph>relrow</synph> elements)
		of cells (<synph>relcell</synph> elements), usually with a header row
		(<synph>relheader</synph> elements). Cells contain 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements that link to topics. The relationship
		between 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements within rows and cells determines how
		generated links will appear in the output. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
