<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9214" status="new"> 
  <title>Collection types</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>collection-type</synph> attribute of the 
	 <synph>topicref</synph> element defines the relationship between any nested
	 topic references within a ditamap. Changing the collection type affects the way
	 in which automatic links and topic previews are generated when the ditamap is
	 processed to an output format. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>collection-type
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>collection-type</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>generated
			 links</indexterm><indexterm>links<indexterm>generated</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topic
			 previews</indexterm><indexterm>previews<indexterm>topic</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>automatically-generated
			 links</indexterm><indexterm>parent-child links</indexterm><indexterm>topicref
			 element<indexterm>attributes</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p> The way links are generated during output processing is dependent upon
		the 
		<synph>collection-type</synph> attribute of 
		<term>parent</term> 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements in the hierarchy section of the ditamap,
		or the containing 
		<synph>relcell</synph> section in the reltable section of the ditamap. (A
		parent 
		<synph>topicref</synph> is one containing nested 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements, or 
		<term>child nodes</term>.) The 
		<synph>collection-type</synph> therefore defines the type of hierarchical
		relationship between members of the same 
		<term>branch</term> of a ditamap 
		<term>tree</term>, or in the same cell in the relationship table 
		<synph>relcell</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There are five collection types in DITA: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>unordered 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A collection of topics where links are generated from parent to
			 children, and from children to parent. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>family 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A collection of topics where links are generated from parent to
			 children, from children to parent, and from sibling to sibling. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>sequence 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A collection of topics where links are generated from parent to
			 children, from children to parent, and from child to previous sibling (if
			 applicable) and next sibling (if applicable). 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>choice 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Not commonly used, but is intended for situations where the reader
			 needs to select one child topic to proceed. This might be useful when the
			 output document is an interactive decision-support application. Most processors
			 treat 
		  <option>choice</option> in the same way as 
		  <option>unordered</option>. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>tree 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><i>Tree</i> is not supported. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Example syntax: 
		<codeph>&lt;topicref href="abc.dita" collection-type="sequence"
		  /&gt;</codeph> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Although 
		<synph>collection-type</synph> attributes are valid in relationship table
		
		<synph>relcell</synph> elements, some don't make a lot of sense in that
		context.
	 </p>
	 <p>For example, setting a 
		<synph>collection-type</synph> in a relationship table cell to 
	 <option>sequence</option> will result in a 
	 <uicontrol>Next Topic</uicontrol> link in the output linking to the next
	 topic referenced in the cell, rather than the next topic in the TOC sequence
	 (as may logically be expected by the reader). 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Although it is possible to set a 
		<synph>collection-type</synph> attribute of 
	 <option>sequence</option> to a 
	 <synph>relcell</synph> element, this is generally confusing to the user, as
	 it will set a topic sequence that differs from the sequence of topics in the
	 hierarchy. The same logic applies to the 
	 <option>choice</option> attribute value. For this reason, avoid using 
	 <synph>collection-type</synph> attribute values of 
	 <option>sequence</option> and 
	 <option>choice</option>. An exception is when you are creating documents
	 with multiple sequential navigation pathways. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Likewise, a 
		<term>reltable</term> doesn't often have parent/child relationships like
		the hierarchy section of the map does, so using a 
	 <option>family</option> 
	 <synph>collection-type</synph> again rarely makes sense in 
	 <term>reltables</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_3874427C3C724D80AA52537D3E994732"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">Unordered is the
		  default if you don't specify a collection type. With
		  collection-type="unordered", normally the output gives you an unordered list of
		  child links. Choice is supposed to indicate that the reader should pick one
		  child topic from those supplied. Example: a parent topic "Installing the
		  software" with two child topics "Installing the software using the command
		  line" and "Installing the software using the GUI". DITA-OT doesn't do anything
		  different when publishing "unordered" or "choice". The specification for
		  collection-type is here:
		  http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/CD01/langspec/common/topicref-atts.html 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
