<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9104" status="new"> 
  <title>Dangling topicrefs</title> 
  <shortdesc>If a ditamap includes a reference to a topic that does not exist,
	 the publishing process will generate output with a broken link. It will not
	 gracefully omit the reference. You should therefore take care to avoid these 
	 <term>dangling topicref</term>. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>dangling
			 topicref</indexterm><indexterm>ditamap</indexterm><indexterm>broken
			 link</indexterm><indexterm>topicref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>onlytopic.in.map</indexterm><indexterm>links<indexterm>broken</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>A 
		<term>dangling topicref</term> is a reference in a ditamap to a topic
		that does not exist in the collection. If you comprehend a 
		<synph>topicref</synph> to be a link, a 
		<term>dangling topicref</term> is the same as a broken link. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You may expect that the processing process will cope gracefully with the
		missing reference, but that is not necessarily the case. In short, it is bad
		practice to have 
		<term>dangling topicref</term> in a ditamap. A 
		<term>dangling topicref</term> should be considered an authoring error,
		even though it is not, strictly speaking, an XML error. 
	 </p> 
	 <p product="academic_only">There is an 
		<parmname>onlytopic.in.map</parmname> parameter in the Ant build file
		that will be interpreted by some publishing tools (such as the DITA Open
		Toolkit) as an instruction to include topics referenced in the hierarchy part
		of the ditamap but not those referenced in the relationship table. This
		parameter does overcome the problem of 
		<term>dangling topicrefs</term> in the 
		<synph>reltable</synph>, but has no effect on 
		<term>dangling topicrefs</term> in the hierarchy. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Good file management practices will help avoid 
		<term>dangling topicrefs</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_803834BEE5954DA78C488FDB509D83AE"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/11500" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">I placated the authors with
		  the following advice, my own take on "then don't do that": - Some of the
		  relationships could obviously be pushed down into the submaps, because they
		  were exactly the kind of relationships that were suited to this, and they were
		  never conditional on both topics being present, possibly because both topics
		  were always present. Pushing these down to the submaps was just a matter of
		  someone having the time to do it. - Some of the relationships were dependent on
		  two topics, each of which were in different submaps A and B. The relationship
		  should exist only if A and B were included. These relationships were to be
		  pushed into a new map AintersectionB, which has no ToC hierarchy and only a
		  small reltable containing the relationships that link topics in A with topics
		  in B. The job of including the AintersectionB submap was given to whichever map
		  includes both A and B. The number of these intersection-maps is, for our
		  documentation, thankfully small. - Some of the relationships were so special
		  that they really could only be seen to belong to one particular output. In
		  those cases, living in the top-level map is probably the least-worst place for
		  those relationships. For us, there are not many categories of this kind of
		  relationship. So the tech pubs team has a plan to move forward and break up the
		  monolithic reltables into manageable chunks. I don't think that it's finished,
		  or I would have heard of further problems. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
