<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_CB9DCCEEE29D42FEA8E053DB8A0D88E2" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Excluding topics from the output TOC</title> 
  <shortdesc>When generating an output which includes a 
	 <term>TOC</term>, you may want to generate a topic from your ditamap but
	 not have it appear in the output TOC. This is achieved through the 
	 <synph>toc</synph> and 
	 <synph>linking</synph> attributes of the 
	 <synph>topicref.</synph> 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>excluding</indexterm><indexterm>TOC<indexterm>excluding
				topics from</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topicref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>parent-child
			 relationships</indexterm><indexterm>generated
			 links</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>linking</indexterm><indexterm>toc</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>topicref</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>By default, every topic referenced in the ditamap will be included in
		the output, regardless of whether it is referenced in the hierarchy section of
		the map or the 
		<synph>reltable</synph> section of the map. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There will be cases where a topic in your collection should not appear
		in the output TOC. An example may be where you have a topic containing an
		example, which you will reference from a concept topic. You may arrange the
		topic hierarchy so that the example topic is a 
		<term>child</term> of the concept topic. You want a link to be
		automatically generated from parent to child, based on the hierarchy, but you
		don't want the example topic to appear as the sole child of the concept topic
		in the TOC. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>To exclude the topic from the output TOC, you must set the relevant 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element's 
		<synph>toc</synph> attribute to 
	 <option>no</option>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>An example of the mark-up is: 
		<codeblock>&lt;topicref
  format="dita"
  href="Reference/FeatureComparisonTable.dita"
  navtitle="Features in different versions of World Time Pro"
  scope="local"
  type="reference"
  linking="yes"
  toc="no" /&gt;
</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If you do not want the parent-child link to automatically generate
		(because you want to link manually, or through a 
		<term>reltable</term> relationship), you must set the hierarchy 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element's 
		<synph>linking</synph> attribute to 
	 <option>none</option>. 
	 </p> 
	 <note>If you want to entirely exclude a topic included in a ditamap from
		the output, you should delete from the ditamap 
		<b>all</b> 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements linking to that topic, including any in
		the relationship table. If you are using conditional publishing, you can set
		the filtering metadata attributes (such as 
		<codeph>&lt;topicref audience="administrator"... /&gt;</codeph>) on 
		<b>all</b> 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements linking to the topic to be filtered
		during the publishing process. 
	 </note> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
