<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_181CE2E77D6E42EABCBEAA59CD2E2D69" rev="1.2" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Creating a Glossary of Terms</title> 
  <shortdesc>A Glossary of Terms is defined in a ditamap using either standard 
	 <synph>topicref</synph> elements to glossary entry topics, or using 
	 <synph>glossref</synph> elements (introduced in 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>).
	 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>keyref
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>keyref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>indirection</indexterm><indexterm>abbreviated-form
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>topicref element</indexterm><indexterm>glossref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>term
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>term</indexterm><indexterm>topicref</indexterm><indexterm>glossref</indexterm><indexterm>abbreviated-form</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>acronyms</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>A 
		<term>Glossary of Terms</term> is made up of multiple small 
		<synph>glossentry</synph> topics, each with a structure of a term
		(<synph>glossterm</synph>) element followed by a definition
		(<synph>glossdef</synph>) element. The glossary of terms is assembled by
		referencing all the 
		<synph>glossentry</synph> topics in a ditamap. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		instead of using the standard 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element to reference the 
		<synph>glossentry</synph> topics, you can use the 
		<synph>glossref</synph> element. The 
		<synph>glossref</synph> element is 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		from the 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element, but differs in having a mandatory 
		<synph>keys</synph> attribute. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>keys</synph> attribute is used for the automatic generation of
		links from terms in topic text to the corresponding glossary definition. The
		links are 
		<term>indirect links</term>, in that the term in the topic links to a
		key, and the target of that key is defined in the ditamap. (This method of
		linking is known as 
		<term>indirection</term>.) 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The following code sample compares a topicref and a glossref: 
		<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="mechanical/g_abs_brake_system.dita" /&gt;

&lt;glossref  href="mechanical/g_brake_system.dita" keys="abs" /&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>To specify that a link to be generated from a term to the glossary
		definition during publishing, you must use a 
		<synph>term</synph> element, or 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		form of the 
		<term>term</term> element named 
		<synph>abbreviated-form</synph>. Both 
		<synph>term</synph> and 
		<synph>abbreviated-form</synph> elements have a 
		<synph>keyref</synph> attribute, which is the reference to the
		corresponding key in the ditamap 
		<synph>glossref</synph> element. (The 
		<synph>keyref</synph> attribute was introduced in 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.)
		
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, to specify a link from the acronym 
		<term>ABS</term> to a glossary definition of 
		<q>ABS Brake System</q>, the following code could be used: 
		<codeblock>&lt;p&gt;Your car has &lt;abbreviated-form keyref="abs"/&gt;.</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Except for small documents, using a separate ditamap for the glossary of
		terms, and then embedding the glossary ditamap in the main ditamap for the
		collection, is the architecture most easy to manage. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
