<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_37EAB58CB6EB432C96AF052E71075330"> 
  <title>The 
	 <synph>navref</synph> element</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>navref</synph> element is a specialist element used when
	 constructing dynamically-merged modular Help systems.
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>modular
			 Help</indexterm><indexterm>master-slave Help
			 systems</indexterm><indexterm>dynamically-merged
			 Help</indexterm><indexterm>merge Help</indexterm><indexterm>navref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>navref</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Some Help system output formats, including Eclipse Help and Microsoft
		HTML Help, support 
		<term>runtime merging</term> of modular Help files, where a 
		<term>master</term> Help system incorporates 
		<term>slave</term> Help system modules dynamically when the user opens
		the Help. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>navref</synph> element provides for run-time modular navigation
		structures. In other words, the target defined by 
		<synph>navref</synph> is resolved not when the parent ditamap is being
		built, but when the resultant deliverable is being rendered. It is a fairly
		obscure element, and is not commonly used. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You may choose to use 
		<synph>navref</synph> as a placeholder when you are building a document
		suite, where a constituent ditamap is not yet available. Even though the 
		<synph>navref</synph> 
		<synph>href</synph> is not available, the ditamap will still build. When
		the map referenced by the 
		<synph>navref</synph> is available, the 
		<synph>navref</synph> should be replaced by a normal 
		<synph>topicref.</synph> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_8E68375E4A5F4A1B896F9791A50EC6CA"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Robert Anderson, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list, 7 Dec 2009 ">In
		  particular, authors building for Eclipse use this to reference another
		  component that may or may not be available. When the other component is
		  installed, the navref results in a TOC that pulls in the other component's TOC
		  entries. When it is not available, nothing is pulled in. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
