<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_08CDC56E8ECB4CD9B2450E1E408EB0C8" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Non-DITA topic references</title> 
  <shortdesc>A ditamap can include references to non-DITA resources, such as
	 PDF documents, spreadsheet files, presentation files, online tutorials, HTML
	 files, and Internet addresses. The 
	 <synph>topicref</synph> element is used for these references, with 
	 <synph>format</synph> and 
	 <synph>scope</synph> attributes describing the type of resource. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>scope</indexterm><indexterm>format</indexterm><indexterm>navtitle</indexterm><indexterm>locktitle</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>topicref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>links<indexterm>to
				PDF and other files</indexterm><indexterm>to Internet
				resources</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topic references<indexterm>to
				non-DITA resources</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topicref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>non-DITA content in
			 ditamaps</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p> Sometimes, a deliverable document in a DITA workflow will not be made
		up exclusively of DITA content. For example, a user manual may need to include
		a PDF form, or a Web site may need to include an interactive Flash tutorial
		created by another party. In such cases, when specifying the ditamap (a 
		<term>manifest</term> of content for your deliverable document), you may
		need to include references to non-DITA resources. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>These non-DITA resources are referenced through the standard 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element, but with two attributes set to nominate
		that the referenced files are non-DITA, and external to the project. These two
		attributes are 
		<synph>format</synph> and 
		<synph>scope</synph>. You would also normally provide a navigation title
		(<synph>navtitle</synph> attribute) and lock the title (setting the 
		<synph>locktitle</synph> attribute to 
	 <option>yes</option>) so that the processor doesn't try to retrieve the
	 topic from the referenced resource. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Further, you may want the TOC in the output, generated from the ditamap,
		to include links to Web sites or e-mail addresses. You can do this by again
		using the standard 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element, but with the 
		<synph>format</synph> attribute set to 
	 <option>html</option> and the 
	 <synph>scope</synph> attribute set to 
	 <option>external</option>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The following code example shows a reference to a Web site, and a
		reference to a PDF file located in a folder relative to the output folder. 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock>&lt;topicref 
  format="html"
  href="http://www.<ph conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.com.au/"
  locktitle="yes" navtitle="<ph conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph> Australia Web Site" scope="external"/&gt;
&lt;topicref format="pdf" href="pdf/2006_impre_brochure.pdf" locktitle="yes" navtitle="<ph conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph> <ph conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Impreza_product_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph> 2006 Brochure" scope="peer"/&gt;</codeblock> 
	 <p>Valid 
		<synph>format</synph> attribute values are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>dita 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>for DITA topics 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>html 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>for HTML or XHTML resources 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>pdf 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>for PDF documents 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>ditamap 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>for embedded ditamap files 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>However, the 
		<synph>format</synph> attribute accepts any string, so if you are
		referencing another type of resource, you can use the file extension (without
		the 
		<q>.</q>). For example, if you are referencing a Word 2007 document, you
		would use 
		<userinput>docx</userinput> as the 
		<synph>format</synph> attribute value. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Valid 
		<synph>scope</synph> attribute values are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>local 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd> the resource is part of the current content collection 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>peer 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the resource is part of the current content collection, but will
			 not be available when the ditamap is processed (the resource will be separately
			 created) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>external 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the resource is not part of the current content collection 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>scope</synph> attribute also has an effect on what window the
		resource opens in (when generated to a hypertext output). 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_9656347964604C8B8D882494324F70BB"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Ray, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/14822" scope="external" format="html"> I have
		  several DITA maps across several products. I want to leverage (that is, re-use)
		  topics from one project in another. I know I can specify a topic as "external"
		  in the DITA map, but the transform just gives me a link to it. I want it to run
		  through the DITA map and, where necessary, "gather" the external topics I'm
		  pointing to and include them in the transformed set of HTML or XHTML files. Am
		  I missing something? Can DITA really not do this? 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Eliot Kimber, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/14823" scope="external" format="html">Scope="external"
		  means "not part of this publication", not "not part of the directory structure
		  beneath this map." So just say scope="local" and you should be fine (maybe, see
		  below). Note that when you process maps that point to topics stored in
		  locations that are not below the top-level map, you need to specify two
		  parameters to the Toolkit so it will do the right thing: - generate.copy.outer
		  - set to the value "2", which causes the toolkit to copy everything into the
		  same relative structure as part of the processing. - outer.control - set to
		  "quiet" so you don't get pointless warnings about files outside the main
		  directory tree. When you do this make sure that your target temp directories
		  and output directories have enough ancestor directories to accommodate any
		  directories above and to the side of the main input map's directory. If you
		  have things stored in really divergent locations, then you probably need to
		  have some sort of pre-process that moves the "external" topics into a better
		  location and then updates references to those topics before you apply the main
		  Toolkit processing. In general, if you have this situation, you should have all
		  the source stored in a common location (e.g. a single network drive), so that,
		  for example, all products or publications and common topics are stored under a
		  common parent directory to minimize the problem. Trying to include topics from
		  two different drives or mount points would probably not work at all. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
