<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9381" status="new"> 
  <title>Storing relationship tables in separate, embedded ditamaps</title> 
  <shortdesc>Even for medium-sized documents, it is easy for ditamap files to
	 become unwieldy due to the number and complexity of topic references. You
	 should take advantage of the modular nature of DITA to store relationship
	 tables in separate ditamaps, embedded within the main ditamap, as soon as the
	 ditamap becomes too large. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>nested
			 ditamaps</indexterm><indexterm>ditamap<indexterm>separate reltable
				ditamap</indexterm><indexterm>nested</indexterm><indexterm>embedded</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>embedded
			 ditamaps</indexterm><indexterm>submaps</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>For collections larger than around 50 topics, it is preferable to store
		relationship table information in a separate ditamap file, embedded (nested)
		within the 
		<term>master ditamap</term> for the collection. The relationship table
		map should only contain reltable sections. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For very large documents, you may choose to have multiple embedded
		reltable ditamaps. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_BD80257338DF4540917AA2644FC63691"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17077" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Paul Masalsky, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p>We have some DITA help systems that are 1000+ topics. The only way
			 to effectively manage related links is through reltables. In larger help
			 systems, we use one top level DITA map with sub-maps that correspond to
			 top-level folders in the help system TOC. Since related links are typically to
			 topics within the same folder, we partition the reltables into each submap to
			 make them easier to manage (it's possible to include related links to topics in
			 other folders, too). 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Each time authors make significant topic updates, they know to check
			 the associated map for reltable entries pertaining to those topics, to see if
			 they are still valid. If they had to check other topics for possible related
			 links, it would be very difficult... we'd have to maintain a separate
			 spreadsheet with a mapping of all topic relations, and why do that when you
			 have reltables? 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17078" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Julio Vazquez, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> You might want to consider
		  multiple reltables. Take a better look at your relationships and look for
		  patterns that might make this simpler. Also, you could have reltables in
		  submaps thus making the management a little more "manageable" by component. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
	 <section id="section_251C7AA9DF0340B1941298714F1DD762"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>References</title> 
		<p><xref
		  href="http://dita.xml.org/improving-relationships-relationship-tables"
		  scope="external" format="html">Improving Relationship Tables</xref> (dita.xml) 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
