<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_A5117CA499A14CA2952F0C984EE019DD"> 
  <title>The 
	 <synph>topicref</synph> element</title> 
  <shortdesc>The basic building block of ditamap files is the topic reference
	 (<synph>topicref</synph>) element. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>topicref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>topicref</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p> Topic references nominate the topic or other resource to be included in
		the collection. They are similar in function to a cross-reference
		(<synph>xref</synph>) element in topic content. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element is used for the hierarchical section of
		the ditamap and the relationship table section. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Resources that a 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element can reference include DITA topics within
		the collection, (embedded) ditamaps, DITA topics external to the collection,
		external files, and Internet resources. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The main attributes of the 
		<synph>topicref</synph> element are the 
		<synph>href</synph>, 
		<synph>scope</synph>, 
		<synph>format</synph>, and 
		<synph>type</synph> attributes. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_71D2A6678B654DE795E83B812F1880D5"
	  audience="contributor">
		<title>Future Enhancements</title>
		<lq
		 reftitle="Robert Anderson, OASIS DITA TC mailing list, 17 August 2010"> 
		  <p>A topicref element may not reference elements nested inside a topic,
			 but it may be used to reference elements inside of a map. For example, this is
			 a valid reference on a topicref: 
		  </p> 
		  <p>&lt;topicref href="othermap.ditamap#branch" format="ditamap"/&gt; 
		  </p> 
		</lq>
		<p>Add information about 
		  <synph>topicsetref</synph> topic (DITA 1.2).
		</p>
		<p> 
		  <draft-comment> 
		  </draft-comment> 
		</p>
	 </section>
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
