<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_25F815C1FFB641608A6175A42B2639E9"> 
  <title>Types of relationship tables</title> 
  <shortdesc>Relationship tables can be designed to suit a variety of types of
	 relationships, including one way links, and links associating concept, task and
	 reference topics. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>topicref</indexterm><indexterm>relcell</indexterm><indexterm>relcolspec</indexterm><indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>collection-type</indexterm><indexterm>linking</indexterm><indexterm>type</indexterm><indexterm>scope</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topicref
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>relcolspec element</indexterm><indexterm>relcell
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>title element</indexterm><indexterm>relationship
			 table</indexterm><indexterm>collection-type
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>linking attribute</indexterm><indexterm>type
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>scope
			 attribute</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>There are many different ways that you can 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		relationship tables. The most common are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>source and target 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>The 
		  <option>source</option> column lists the topics in which a link will be
		  included, and the 
		  <option>target</option> column lists the topics that the source will be
		  linked to (<q>from source, to target</q>). 
		  <option>Target</option> topics do not have links back to the 
		  <option>source</option> topic. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>task, concept, and reference 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Topics are 
			 <ph
			  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
			 into columns by information type. Each topic in a cell will be linked to all
			 other topics that are in other cells in the same row. Topics in the same cell
			 will not be linked to each other unless that cell's 
			 <synph>collection-type</synph> attribute is set to 
			 <synph>family</synph>. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>task, concept, reference, and external 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Topics are 
			 <ph
			 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
			 into columns by information type, with an extra column for link targets that
			 are external to the ditamap collection. Each topic in a cell will be linked to
			 all other topics that are in other cells in the same row, and all URLs listed
			 in the 
		  <option>external</option> cell in the same row. Topics in the same cell
		  will not be linked to each other unless that cell's 
		  <synph>collection-type</synph> attribute is set to 
		  <synph>family</synph>. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Some people have found that a four column arrangement of 
		<varname>sourceonly task</varname>, 
		<varname>targetonly concept</varname>, 
		<varname>targetonly task</varname>, and 
		<varname>targetonly reference</varname> is effective. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The arrangement of the reltable is defined by the following attributes
		in the 
		<synph>relcolspec</synph> or 
		<synph status="changed">relcell</synph> elements of the table: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>linking 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>defines the rules by which links are generated 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>type 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>defines the information type (concept, task, reference, 
			 <varname
			  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/varname_specialised"><?xm-replace_text Variable Name?></varname>)
			 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>scope 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>defines whether the related information is external to the
			 collection (typically, a Web resource) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A setting in the 
		<synph>relcolspec</synph> element will cascade down to the 
		<synph>relcell</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You can also choose to have a number of relationship tables of different
		designs in the same ditamap. You can use the reltable's 
		<synph>title</synph> attribute to label the different reltables in a map;
		this 
		<synph>title</synph> is not used in any output, so it is only an aid to
		authors. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_9AB9BD5E0B144945BE6E51B1F64939B8"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		href="http://dita.xml.org/improving-relationships-relationship-tables"
		reftitle="Zachary Binder blog"> 
		  <p>After doing a lot of research into relationship tables, my team
			 nearly abandoned the effort because mapping a large number of topics in the
			 standard three-column relationship table was too complex. However, once we
			 realized that a four-column approach was much more effective in creating and
			 maintaining the relationships between DITA topics, our information modeling and
			 online help creation process became much easier to manage. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>While the four-column relationship table below has three more rows
			 than the standard three-column relationship table, the larger table makes it
			 much easier to maintain the relationships between the various relationships
			 between the topics. In the example below, when a topic relationship changes,
			 the writer can simply locate and modify a single row that defines the links for
			 that topic. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
