<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D1818" status="new"> 
  <title>Purpose of ditamap files</title> 
  <shortdesc>DITA map files are used for defining the topics of a publication,
	 specifying the topic sequence, and controlling linking between topics. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>ditamap</indexterm><indexterm>manifest</indexterm><indexterm>metadata<indexterm>map
				level</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>navigation</indexterm><indexterm>hierarchy</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA map (or 
		<term>ditamap</term>) files have three primary purposes: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>Topic Manifest 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>To define the topics to be processed into the output publication. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>Hierarchy Definition 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>To define the sequence and hierarchy of topics in the output so
			 that the heading levels, table of contents, parent-child links, and other
			 navigation pathways (such as breadcrumb links) can be constructed. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>Linking Relationships 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd> To define the relationships between topics so that related topics
			 links and other context-specific links can be automatically constructed. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A map has two main components: the hierarchy (of which there is one per
		map), and the relationship table (of which there can be none or many). Both are
		primarily made of 
		<term>topic references</term> (<synph>topicref</synph> elements). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A 
		<term>ditamap</term> file is not a topic: it contains no content. It is,
		however, a type of DITA XML file. A 
		<term>ditamap</term> file can also contain publication- or
		output-specific metadata. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You can create as many ditamaps as you need. For example, you might
		create one map file for your 
		<cite><ph
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  
		  <ph
			conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Impreza_product_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  XRW Owner's Manual</cite>, another for the 
		<cite><ph
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  
		  <ph
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Impreza_product_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  XR Owner's Manual</cite>, and another for the 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Impreza_product_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		Web site. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
