<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-au" id="D9200"> 
  <title>External references in the relationship table</title> 
  <shortdesc>Like other references in the ditamap, topic references in the
	 relationship table can reference files external to the DITA collection, such as
	 PDF files or Web URLs. The 
	 <synph>scope</synph>, 
	 <synph>format</synph> and 
	 <synph>type</synph> attributes in the topicref are used to specify the
	 external reference. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>relcell</indexterm><indexterm>relcolspec</indexterm><indexterm>format
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>type attribute</indexterm><indexterm>scope
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>format</indexterm><indexterm>type</indexterm><indexterm>scope</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>PDF<indexterm>links
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>external
			 links</indexterm><indexterm>Web<indexterm>links
				to</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>windows<indexterm>opening targets in
				new</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p> A relationship table doesn't have to only refer to DITA topics within
		the current project. Like 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements used in the hierarchy section of the
		ditamap, 
		<synph>topicref</synph> elements in the 
		<synph>reltable</synph> can reference external files and URLs. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If you want an external reference target to open in a new window when
		output to a hypertext format, the approach is as follows. 
	 <ol id="ul_BAA9D33D07A24DA0872C75432B26A1D6"> 
		<li outputclass="listnumber" id="li_omit_type">Omit the 
		  <synph>type</synph> attribute in the 
		  <synph>relcolspec</synph> element (to apply the attribute to all 
		  <synph>topicref</synph> elements in the column) or the 
		  <synph>relcell</synph> element (to apply the attribute to all 
		  <synph>topicref</synph> elements in the cell). 
		</li> 
		<li outputclass="listnumber" id="li_set_format">Set the 
		  <synph>format</synph> attribute in the 
		  <synph>relcolspec</synph> or the 
		  <synph>relcell</synph> so that it describes the external file format
		  (for example, if the external files are PDF files, set the 
		  <synph>format</synph> attribute to 
		  <userinput>pdf</userinput>). 
		</li> 
		<li outputclass="listnumber" id="li_37F990F00AA348A0BCE33596EEA7CC4D">Set
		  the 
		  <synph>scope</synph> attribute in the 
		  <synph>relcolspec</synph> or 
		  <synph>relcell</synph> to 
	 <option>external</option>. 
	 </li> 
	 </ol> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If you want the external reference target to open in the same window
		(when permitted by the browser and the external document type), the approach is
		as follows. 
	 <ol id="ul_3483AAAEC3864E699915E1B78CBC1120"> 
		<li id="li_4D6B94F30F0C406598EB1F32E8B11301"
		conref="#D9200/li_omit_type"><?xm-replace_text List Item?>
		</li>
		<li id="li_BAB77626CB5548C6AEF08A9565113E45"
		conref="#D9200/li_set_format"><?xm-replace_text List Item?>
		</li>
		<li outputclass="listnumber" id="li_ECADC65342F948359A35CC846764316A">Set
		  the 
		  <synph>scope</synph> attribute in the 
		  <synph>relcolspec</synph> or 
		  <synph>relcell</synph> to 
		  <userinput>peer</userinput>. 
		</li> 
	 </ol> 
	 </p> 
	 <note>The type of output, and the publishing tool used, may affect the
		functionality of the 
		<synph>scope</synph> attribute setting. 
	 </note> 
	 <p> 
		<draft-comment> Peer and external just indicate whether resource is same
		  directory structure (relative) or external directory structure (absolute). Peer
		  will be displayed in same window (in hypertext outputs, and let's face it, this
		  is really specific to hypertext outputs) and external in new window (target). 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
