<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_4A08D31C946B4B1885A80B60BAE70211" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Abstracts</title> 
  <abstract>The 
	 <synph>abstract</synph> element is similar to the 
	 <synph>shortdesc</synph> element, in that it is used to contain a concise
	 summary of the content of the topic. Abstracts should be used for special cases
	 only, as they only offer advantages over short descriptions in limited
	 scenarios. 
	 <shortdesc>Abstracts can contain multiple 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> elements, which are typically processed slightly
		differently to standalone 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> elements. 
	 </shortdesc></abstract> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>abstract</indexterm><indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm><indexterm>Ockham's
			 Razor</indexterm><indexterm>conref</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm><indexterm>conditional publishing<index-see>conditional
				processing</index-see></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA 
		<synph>abstract</synph> elements are similar to short descriptions, but
		allow for more complex information structures. An abstract can contain a range
		of block elements such as paragraphs and notes, but can also contain one or
		more 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A topic can contain either an 
		<synph>abstract</synph> (which may include a nested 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph>), or a standalone 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph>, but not both. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In general, a 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> should be used in preference to an 
		<synph>abstract</synph>, following the principle that the simplest
		approach is usually the best<cite product="academic_only"> (Ockham's
		  Razor)</cite>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">The 
		<synph>abstract</synph> structure should be used for: 
	 <ul id="ul_2469A8D22DD14C7A8F13566C077C1532"> 
		<li id="li_A377CD02CD1B498591B91487044CEE32">topics where multiple short
		  descriptions are needed because the topic is to be conditionally published 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_89D5B297815C488FA11F2276C6FED6BA">re-use topics, where
		  multiple 
		  <synph>shortdesc</synph> elements are going to be 
		  <term>conreffed</term> into other topics 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_941035CA49684AE98BFD740CFA2F9AE1">complex topics where the 
		  <synph>shortdesc</synph> is too limited to adequately summarise the
		  topic content. 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Only the 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> element(s) within the 
		<synph>abstract</synph> are included in the topic previews and link
		previews. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_D7599A646DC647D29B9827AB3E30AB3C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">&lt;abstract&gt;&lt;shortdesc&gt;Last
		  I saw, DITA-OT handles shortdesc only for preview text.&lt;/shortdesc&gt; If
		  the shortdesc is inside an abstract, that works too, but you get only the
		  shortdesc, not the whole abstract. If this paragraph were used as a topic
		  preview you'd get only the first sentence in your preview.&lt;/abstract&gt; 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
