<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_BE445D9F41BF4C08BB887389FE691BE7" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Similar element names</title> 
  <shortdesc>DITA includes semantic elements that have almost identical names
	 to others, such as 
	 <synph>keyword</synph> and 
	 <synph>kwd</synph>. These similar elements are intended to be used in
	 different authoring scenarios. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>keyword</indexterm><indexterm>kwd</indexterm><indexterm>var</indexterm><indexterm>varname</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>keyword
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>kwd element</indexterm><indexterm>var
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>varname element</indexterm><indexterm>redundant
			 elements</indexterm><indexterm>duplicate semantic element
			 names</indexterm><indexterm>domains</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA includes a 
		<synph>keyword</synph> element, as well as a 
		<synph>kwd</synph> element. It includes a 
		<synph>var</synph> element, as well as a 
		<synph>varname</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The reason for this apparent duplication is that DITA base elements are 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		into 
		<term>domains</term> of: 
	 <ul id="ul_4DE93EF5DA0942EE95673B744BE54638"> 
		<li id="li_723F84FC672948258C89EAD9B2340399">programming 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_4CACFDCDBA384605A09DE03A2707818F">software 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_EA36D554BA7E440F9C115377FEEBFEDD">user interface 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_D8C490A039084654AAE87049D55E08C3">typographical (or
		  highlighting) 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Different domains make it easier to identify elements relating to
		different types of documentation. In different documents, some similar concepts
		(such as keywords) have different semantic meanings. The differences between
		the apparently duplicated elements, according to the 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Lang_Reference"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		are as follows. 
	 </p> 
	 <table id="table_2777C9243C17480E91206A7329D7B373" colsep="1" rowsep="1"> 
		<tgroup cols="3"> 
		  <colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec
		  colname="col3"/> 
		  <thead> 
			 <row valign="top"> 
				<entry align="left">Element 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">Domain 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">Meaning 
				</entry> 
			 </row> 
		  </thead> 
		  <tbody> 
			 <row valign="top"> 
				<entry align="left"><synph>var</synph> 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">Programming 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">Within a syntax diagram, the 
				  <synph>var</synph> element defines a variable for which the user
				  must supply content, such as their user name or password. 
				</entry> 
			 </row> 
			 <row valign="top"> 
				<entry align="left"><synph>varname</synph> 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">Software 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">The 
				  <synph>varname</synph> element defines a variable that must be
				  supplied to a software application. The variable name element is very similar
				  to the 
				  <synph>var</synph> element, but variable name is used outside of
				  syntax diagrams. 
				</entry> 
			 </row> 
			 <row valign="top"> 
				<entry align="left"><synph>kwd</synph> 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">Programming 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">The 
				  <synph>kwd</synph> element defines a keyword within a syntax
				  diagram. A keyword must be typed or output, either by the user or application,
				  exactly as specified in the syntax definition. 
				</entry> 
			 </row> 
			 <row valign="top"> 
				<entry align="left"><synph>keyword</synph> 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left">No particular domain; is used in the body and
				  prolog. 
				</entry> 
				<entry align="left"><synph>keyword</synph> represents a word or
				  phrase with special significance in a particular domain. In the general case, 
				  <synph>keyword</synph> elements typically do not have any special
				  semantics and processing associated with them, but can still be useful for 
				  <ph xml:lang="en-US">organizing</ph> content for re-use or
				  special processing. Topic description keywords are typically used for
				  searching, retrieval and classification purposes. 
				</entry> 
			 </row> 
		  </tbody> 
		</tgroup> 
	 </table> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
