<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9331" status="new"> 
  <title>Attaching data to content</title> 
  <shortdesc>Detailed metadata associated with a DITA element can be stored in 
	 <synph>data</synph> elements in the flow of the content. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>data</indexterm><indexterm>data-about</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>data
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>data-about
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>metadata</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Despite the name, the 
		<synph>data</synph> element is for metadata stored in the flow of the
		content within the topic body. It is most useful as the basis for 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialising"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		other elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Within base DITA, you would most likely use the 
		<synph>data</synph> element to store information about the source of code
		fragments, citations, or quotations. However, it is not a commonly used
		element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>data</synph> element can be nested inside many DITA elements.
		Other 
		<synph>data</synph> elements can be nested inside a 
		<synph>data</synph> element. A 
		<synph>data-about</synph> element can also be nested inside a 
		<synph>data</synph> element. The 
		<synph>data</synph> element has a number of attributes, including: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>name 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the unique name for the piece of data 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>value 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>the value of the piece of data 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>href 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>a link to the resource used for the piece of data 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, the detailed source of a long quotation is contained in 
		<synph>data</synph> elements in the following sample: 
		<codeblock>&lt;lq reftitle="Lynch and Horton (2009)" href="http://webstyleguide.com/"&gt;
  &lt;data name="ref_Lynch_Horton"&gt;
    &lt;data name="date_retrieved" value="13 September 2009" /&gt;
    &lt;data name="chapter" value="9" /&gt;
    &lt;data name="pub_type" value="web" /&gt;
    &lt;data name="page_URL" href="http://webstyleguide.com/wsg3/9-editorial-style/2-structuring-prose.html" /&gt;
    &lt;data name="pub_title"&gt;Web Style Guide&lt;/data&gt;
    &lt;data name="edition" value="3" /&gt;
  &lt;/data&gt;
The inverted pyramid style used in journalism works well on web
pages...
&lt;/lq&gt;</codeblock> How the metadata stored in the 
		<synph>data</synph> element structure is used is up to the authoring and
		publishing tools used. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_12C0DC7DDF96468387F3660333FE348D"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Erik Hennum, DITA TC mailing list"><data></data>I believe
		  the thought was that the &lt;data&gt; element should provide extensibility for
		  properties attached to content in the flow. The concern about adding content
		  elements was the risk of abuse -- using data as a method of adding content to
		  the flow rather than properties of the content in the flow. With that in mind,
		  &lt;data&gt; itself can refer to resources relevant to the topic or part of the
		  body flow within the topic. The &lt;ph&gt; element can provide a description
		  about the related resource. But, it seems a little odd to embed a link in a
		  description when the resource is identified by the &lt;data&gt; element. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
