<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D4980" status="new"> 
  <title>Complex command reference content</title> 
  <shortdesc>When documenting complex software command references, you can use
	 a combination of DITA phrase elements to describe the syntax. The mark-up can
	 be converted to syntax formatting conventions during the publishing process. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>kwd
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>option element</indexterm><indexterm>oper
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>var element</indexterm><indexterm>delim
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>sep element</indexterm><indexterm>synph
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>synblk
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>kwd</indexterm><indexterm>synph</indexterm><indexterm>synblk</indexterm><indexterm>sep</indexterm><indexterm>delim</indexterm><indexterm>var</indexterm><indexterm>oper</indexterm><indexterm>option</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>command
			 syntax</indexterm><indexterm>syntax<indexterm>formatting
				conventions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>formatting
			 conventions<indexterm>syntax</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conventions<indexterm>formatting</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In style-based authoring, formatting conventions have been used to
		identify the parts of command syntax for computer software applications. In
		this context, a command is a string of text that a user types in order to run
		an application and pass arguments to the application. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/Microsoft_MOS_short"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		suggests a syntax of: 
	 </p> 
	 <ul id="ul_60FF93A5A3BE40F495A2509946B3E1DB"> 
		<li id="li_B225470FB45B4E57B83B3D3536D498B7">command in bold 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_8A56302110294F56AEC0444DC122EC6D">a set of choices surrounded
		  by { } 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_5FCF5CB7EBF54CD0899614F63F935558"> individual choices
		  separated by | 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_48FC5A99CB4143FAB0C7F94BBDA60AEC">variable names in italics 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_E0CFFA8D76D541379465F7904A51BDFB">repeatable arguments
		  indicated by ... 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_EFB04572B26049978AE450EA017146D8">optional items surrounded by
		  [ ] or [[ ]]. 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 <p>For example, a command syntax might be represented as 
		<b>ant</b> [-f 
		<i>filename</i>] [-logfile 
		<i>filename</i>] [-verbose]. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In DITA, the following semantic elements are used to identify the
		components of a command: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>kwd 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A literal keyword used in a command, utility or batch file 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>option 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>an option or switch that modifies a command 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>oper 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>An operator (such as 
			 <synph>*</synph>, 
			 <synph>+</synph> or 
			 <synph>=</synph>) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>var 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>The name of a variable or argument 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>delim 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A delimiter character used to identify the beginning or end of one
			 part of the syntax 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>sep 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A separator character such as a bracket that is used within syntax 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The syntax mark-up should be contained as a whole within a syntax phrase
		(<synph>synph</synph>) or syntax block (<synph>synblk</synph>) element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>An example of a marked up command line might be: 
		<codeblock>&lt;synph&gt;
 &lt;kwd&gt;ant&lt;/kwd&gt; &lt;option&gt;-f&lt;/option&gt; &lt;var&gt;filename&lt;/var&gt;
 &lt;option&gt;-logfile&lt;/option&gt; &lt;var&gt;filename&lt;/var&gt;
 &lt;option&gt;-verbose&lt;/option&gt;
&lt;/synph&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A typical output of this code is: 
	 </p> 
	 <p><synph><kwd>ant</kwd> 
		  <option>-f</option> 
		  <var>filename</var> 
		  <option>-logfile</option> 
		  <var>filename</var> 
		  <option>-verbose</option></synph> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When the command syntax is being used within an instruction to a user
		(usually within a task topic), the syntax should instead be contained within a 
		<synph>userinput</synph> element, without the individual components of
		the command semantically identified. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_7083B4C3031B48C0A70DA16F82F9D0BE"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Martha Morgan, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/11798" scope="external" format="html">My
		  colleagues and I can't come to agreement about how to tag command syntax
		  content (not a diagram) in a reference topic. This is for a product that has a
		  command-line interface. For example, how should we tag a command such as:
		  cluster show [-instance] [-node {local | node_name}] [-node-uuid node_UUID]
		  [-epsilon {true | false}] [-eligibility {true | false}] [-health {true |
		  false}] In this example, the name of the command itself is "cluster show" and
		  node_name and node_UUID are variables. My colleagues have all studied the
		  specification to the point where we spend entire meetings debating like
		  constitutional scholars over what each element was "meant" for, based on
		  descriptions of the elements in the programming and software domains. Yet we
		  are no closer to agreement on this issue than when we began discussions. Can
		  anyone provide guidance on how command syntax content in a reference topic
		  should be tagged? 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="OASIS DITA Wiki"
		href="http://wiki.oasis-open.org/dita/SyntaxDiagram" scope="external" format="html">Two other elements in
		  DITA's software domain cover the simple case of dialog or interaction between a
		  computer and a user: &lt;systemoutput&gt; and &lt;userinput&gt;. By contrast,
		  the &lt;syntaxdiagram&gt; and &lt;synph&gt; family covers actual programming
		  syntax, not interaction. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
