<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_842A1B4B509945A49A119E7B7922BD3C"> 
  <title>Dates</title> 
  <shortdesc>Dates are treated no differently to text with no specific semantic
	 meaning. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>dates</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>There is no semantic element in DITA for dates in the flow of text in
		content, and they are therefore simply typed into the content. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You should, however, use consistent and standard notations for dates.
		Dates are represented numerically in different ways in different cultures, even
		within the same language group. Interational Standard ISO 8601 specifies rules
		for the numeric representation of dates; you should follow these standards
		where possible. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_F4CEE1FF54084C7498AE6905ED46525C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/iso-time.html" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Markus Kuhn">International Standard ISO 8601 specifies numeric
		  representations of date and time. This standard notation helps to avoid
		  confusion in international communication caused by the many different national
		  notations and increases the portability of computer user interfaces. 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/iso-time.html" scope="external" format="html"
		 reftitle="Markus Kuhn">Other commonly used notations are e.g. 2/4/95, 4/2/95,
		  95/2/4, 4.2.1995, 04-FEB-1995, 4-February-1995, and many more. Especially the
		  first two examples are dangerous, because as both are used quite often in the
		  U.S. and in Great Britain and both can not be distinguished, it is unclear
		  whether 2/4/95 means 1995-04-02 or 1995-02-04. The date notation 2/4/5 has at
		  least six reasonable interpretations (assuming that only the twentieth and
		  twenty-first century are reasonable candidates in our life time). 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
