<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D4753" status="new"> 
  <title>Cross-references and typography in 
	 <synph>shortdesc</synph> elements</title> 
  <shortdesc>Although it is possible to embed a phrase (ph) element in a
	 shortdesc, and then include formatting and xref elements within the phrase, it
	 is not a semantically sound practice. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog> 
	 <author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>hacks</indexterm><indexterm>workarounds</indexterm><indexterm>typographical
			 domain elements<indexterm>in short
				descriptions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>shortdesc
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>ph
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>ph</indexterm><indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cross-references<indexterm>in
				short descriptions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>xref element<indexterm>in
				shortdesc</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>At first glance, the 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> element seems unable to contain some inline
		mark-up such as cross-references. On closer examination, it becomes apparent
		that a 
		<synph>ph</synph> inline element can be inserted, and that 
		<synph>ph</synph> element can contain cross-references. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Although the DITA language technically permits this
		sort of mark-up construct, hacks such as this should not be used. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Example of invalid code: 
		<codeblock>&lt;shortdesc&gt;The &lt;xref href="c_turbo.dita#c4753/turbo_overview"&gt;
turbocharger systems&lt;/xref&gt; uses...</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Example of technically valid, but unwise, code: 
		<codeblock>&lt;shortdesc&gt;The &lt;ph&gt;&lt;xref href="c_turbo.dita#c4753/turbo_overview"&gt;
turbocharger systems&lt;/xref&gt;&lt;/ph&gt; uses...</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">The 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> element is intended to contain a brief synopsis
		of the content of the topic, and isn't necessarily intended to be output as
		part of the topic content. It is intended for link previews and hover text; it
		doesn't make sense to include cross-references in these. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In the same way, typographical elements such as bold (<synph>b</synph>)
		and italic (<synph>i</synph>) are not usually appropriate in short
		descriptions, even though they are technically valid, because short
		descriptions are often rendered in plain text forms (such as in tooltips). If
		you think you need such formatting, you should consider whether the content you
		are including really belongs in a 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">The shortdesc should be treated as metadata, not
		content. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> may legitimately need some inline mark-up, such
		as where a superscript or subscript character is needed. For example, a 
		<synph>shortdec</synph> might discuss water as 
		<codeph>H&lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt;O</codeph>. This will inevitably present
		a problem when the 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> text is used in a context where subscripts are
		not permitted, such as in a tooltip or an HTML topic title. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Inline mark-up in a 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> should therefore be avoided where the formatting
		of that mark-up in the output is important to its meaning. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
