<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_6AB4B08F43AD41CE83D096184677E05F" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Guidelines for crafting short descriptions</title> 
  <shortdesc>Short descriptions are difficult and time consuming to write.
	 Following guidelines for 
	 <synph>shortdesc</synph> creation will make the task easier, and result in
	 more consistent descriptions. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Kris Eberlein</author><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>short
			 description</indexterm><indexterm>shortdesc
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Eberlein,
			 Kris</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>This table is a summary of the recommendations made by Kris Eberlein in
		her 
		<cite>Art of the Short Description</cite> presentation at the 2007 DITA
		Europe Conference<cite product="academic_only"> (Eberlein, 2007)</cite>. 
		<simpletable id="simpletable_C6ABA39E4E0E4F33AB555225F6F0BD30"> 
		  <sthead><stentry>Do:</stentry><stentry>Don't</stentry> 
		  </sthead> 
		  <strow><stentry> 
				<ul id="ul_736CDC4E75C34FB08DB4204EA7D9C1A7"> 
				  <li id="li_700EF0E89B5F4B43ADD8BE42A33432DD">Make the 
					 <synph>shortdesc</synph> 
					 <term>standalone</term>, so that the topic is not dependent
					 upon the 
					 <synph>shortdesc</synph>. 
				  </li> 
				  <li id="li_8D95507C1E9246D98C9AA4605C1619C5">Make the 
					 <synph>shortdesc</synph> concise and complete. 
				  </li> 
				  <li id="li_CF3411657D324400B487EDDDC24D14E5">Include less than 50
					 words in only one or two sentences. 
				  </li> 
				  <li id="li_A6E0B93AAA5B46E78AA11C3610DD5B2F">Use complete
					 sentences, except for short topics such as in API documentation. 
				  </li> 
				</ul></stentry><stentry> 
				<ul id="ul_876B53BC80234D1C8D63286985C48B1B"> 
				  <li id="li_1662FB43B1E049ECB1E470D8B13C7083">Restate the title. 
				  </li> 
				  <li id="li_7054C72A436E4EFA852A858585124F27">State the obvious. 
				  </li> 
				  <li id="li_AD545E2BB5CD411DA00A343904CA6BB9">Start the 
					 <synph>shortdesc</synph> with 
					 <q>this topic...</q>. 
				  </li> 
				  <li id="li_C340B8458D4545E389EEBA43AF7EC042">Use the 
					 <synph>shortdesc</synph> as a lead-in sentence. 
				  </li> 
				</ul></stentry> 
		  </strow> 
		</simpletable> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Different approaches to writing short descriptions are required for
		different information types. 
	 </p> 
	 <simpletable id="simpletable_F46198C293234ECAA3E30E982FEDA430"> 
		<sthead><stentry>Information Type</stentry><stentry>Guidelines</stentry> 
		</sthead> 
		<strow><stentry>Task</stentry><stentry> 
			 <p>The 
				<synph>shortdesc</synph> should answer the questions of what are
				the benefits of the task, and what is the purpose of the task. Include
				information about when the user should perform the task (or why the task is
				necessary). If applicable, include information about who performs the task. 
			 </p></stentry> 
		</strow> 
		<strow><stentry>Concept</stentry><stentry> 
			 <p>The 
				<synph>shortdesc</synph> should answer the questions of what is
				this, and why do I care about this. Start with a brief definition, if the
				concept is unfamiliar. Make sure the 
				<synph>shortdesc</synph> contains the main point of the topic. 
			 </p></stentry> 
		</strow> 
		<strow><stentry>Reference</stentry><stentry> 
			 <p>The 
				<synph>shortdesc</synph> should answer the questions of what are
				the items, what do they do, and what are they used for. Use consistent phrasing
				across document sets so that your information can be easily integrated into a
				range of publications. 
			 </p></stentry> 
		</strow> 
	 </simpletable> 
	 <section id="section_6DEFDADA84F0467BAAC687C86A0B944C"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p><cite>Eberlein (2007)</cite> also suggests that if a topic only
		  contains one paragraph, that paragraph should be contained in the 
		  <synph>shortdesc</synph> (resultantly, with no text in the topic body).
		  I disagree, because following this path the topic will be empty if the 
		  <synph>shortdesc</synph> is excluded from the output. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
