<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9135" status="new"> 
  <title>Keyboard keystrokes</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>uicontrol</synph> element should be used when describing keys on a
	 keyboard, and the 
	 <synph>userinput</synph> element for describing a series of keystrokes that
	 the user must input. The name of the key should not be encapsulated or
	 bracketed. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>uicontrol</indexterm><indexterm>userinput</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>keyboard</indexterm><indexterm>computer
			 keyboard</indexterm><indexterm>keystrokes</indexterm><indexterm>Enter
			 key</indexterm><indexterm>Tab key</indexterm><indexterm>user
			 input</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is not immediately obvious in DITA which element should be used to
		mark up keyboard keys, such as 
		<uicontrol>Enter</uicontrol>, 
		<uicontrol>Ctrl</uicontrol> and 
		<uicontrol>Backspace</uicontrol>. The best approach (without resorting to
		
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>)
		is to use the 
		<synph>uicontrol</synph> and 
		<synph>userinput</synph> elements, depending on context. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">When describing keys on a computer keyboard, use the 
		<synph>uicontrol</synph> element. For example, 
		<codeph>&lt;p&gt;Use the &lt;uicontrol&gt;Tab&lt;uicontrol&gt; to move
		  from field to field.&lt;/p&gt;</codeph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <note>Do not use the 
		<synph>shortcut</synph> element; this element is for identifying keyboard
		shortcuts in descriptions of user interface controls in windowed applications. 
	 </note> 
	 <p importance="high">When describing a series of keystrokes, or data, that
		the user must input, use the 
		<synph>userinput</synph> element. For example, 
		<codeph>&lt;cmd&gt;Enter &lt;userinput&gt;1234&lt;/userinput&gt;, then
		  &lt;uicontrol&gt;Tab&lt;/uicontrol&gt; to continue.&lt;/cmd&gt;</codeph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Do not bracket the key name, such as by using square brackets around 
		<q>Tab</q> to form 
		<codeph>&lt;uicontrol&gt;[Tab]&lt;/uicontrol&gt;</codeph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If the keyboard keys or keystrokes need to be rendered differently from
		other user interface controls (such as fields and buttons) in the output, then
		a 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		should be created. An alternative is to use a consistent 
		<synph>outputclass</synph> attribute on the keyboard elements. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
