<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9112" status="new"> 
  <title>Trademarks and service marks</title> 
  <shortdesc>The trademark (<synph>tm</synph>) element is used to identify
	 different types of trade and service marks, and to record the mark owner. While
	 there is no direct provision for a trademark image, a workaround can be used
	 for this purpose. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/author_tony_self"></author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>tm
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>tm</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>trademark</indexterm><indexterm>registered
			 trademark</indexterm><indexterm>intellectual
			 property</indexterm><indexterm>service mark</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>A trademark is a distinctive word, phrase, sign, symbol or other
		indicator used by an 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		to identify its products or services, or the 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		itself. Trademark laws vary from country to country, although there are
		international conventions including the Trademark Law Treaty, the Madrid System
		of registering trademarks in multiple jurisdictions, and 
		<term
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/term_WTO"><?xm-replace_text Term?></term>
		agreements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>DITA includes a trademark (<synph>tm</synph>) element to identify
		trademark words or phrases. However, there is specific provision for
		identifying images as trademarks. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>tm</synph> element has a required 
		<synph>tmtype</synph> attribute, which has three valid values: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>reg 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>registered trademark 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>tm 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>unregistered trademark 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>sm 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>service mark (not widely used outside USA) 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When processed to an output format, the value of the 
		<synph>tmtype</synph> attribute will typically be used to apply the
		applicable standard symbol to the trademark or service mark, such as ® or ™. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>tm</synph> element also has an optional 
		<synph>tmclass</synph> attribute, which can be used for different
		classifications of 
	 <option>reg</option>, 
	 <option>tm</option>, and 
	 <option>sm</option>. More importantly, the 
	 <synph>tm</synph> element has 
	 <synph>trademark</synph> and 
	 <synph>tmowner</synph> attribute. The 
	 <synph>trademark</synph> attribute is used when the content of the 
	 <synph>tm</synph> element is different to the legal trademark itself. The 
	 <synph>tmowner</synph> attribute is used to identify the name of the legal
	 entity that owns the trademark. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Without any special provision for identifying the trademark detail of an
		image, a workaround is to code the trademark inside a 
		<synph>term</synph> element inside the alternative text
		(<synph>alt</synph> element) value for the image, as in the example: 
		<codeblock>&lt;image href="..."&gt;
 &lt;alt&gt;
  &lt;term&gt;
   &lt;tm tmtype="reg" tmowner="IBM Corp."&gt;IBM&lt;/tm&gt;
  &lt;/term&gt;
 Logo&lt;/alt&gt;
&lt;/image&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_7284DE2B62DE4A38B9E880FC89BB246E"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/200512/msg00000.html"
		 reftitle="Don Day, OASIS DITA Technical Committee Minutes, 29 November 2005">I
		  think there is a true semantic distinction between trademark text (the
		  discoverable thing that takes the (TM) or (R) superscript qualifier) and a
		  logo, which is not ordinarily used in discourse (as with "XML" in "DITA is an
		  application of (Embedded image moved to file: pic22036.jpg) ") (FYI, there is a
		  graphic [XML] at the end of that sentence). Lega29 l experts might be even
		  quicker to point out the distinction between the two. The graphic might be an
		  output expression of a full trademarked string, but anyone searching a document
		  for trademark infringement will be doing the string analysis anyway. Even in
		  the output, the text of the tm should go into the @alt="XML logo" attribute for
		  the image. - (And the fact that IBM uses logos such as [eServer] in discourse
		  all over the Web informs me that there are cases for such usage--I'm just
		  trying to find the best practice for separating source from output concerns.) 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Don Day, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/12204">The best
		  practice that came out of that discussion was this: Don suggests also for Chris
		  to consider this form: &lt;image href=""&gt;&lt;tm
		  attrs...&gt;IBM&lt;/tm&gt;&lt;alt&gt;IBM Logo&lt;/alt&gt;&lt;/image&gt; This
		  has the advantage of not creating any new mark-up, of not introducing image
		  within keyword (which is what image within tm would imply), and of ensuring
		  that tm can occur anywhere that you would want to place a logo anyway (that is,
		  anyplace in which image is already allowed). There is little difference in
		  terms of processing for output, and it retains the advantage of string
		  searching for text of interest for policy-enforcing tools, and works fine for
		  direct authoring. 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/12211"
		reftitle="Jeremy Griffith, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">I like this solution. The
		  only problem is that it is invalid, at least in DITA 1.1. &lt;g&gt; This
		  appears to be the closest we can get without losing validity: 
		  <codeblock>&lt;image href=""&gt;
 &lt;alt&gt;
  &lt;term&gt;
   &lt;tm attrs...&gt;IBM&lt;/tm&gt;
  &lt;/term&gt;
 IBM Logo&lt;/alt&gt;
&lt;/image&gt;</codeblock> The constraints are that &lt;image&gt; can contain only
		  &lt;alt&gt; (no other elements and no text), and &lt;alt&gt; cannot contain
		  &lt;tm&gt;. But &lt;alt&gt; can contain &lt;term&gt;, and &lt;term&gt; can
		  contain &lt;tm&gt;. Since &lt;alt&gt; cannot contain &lt;ph&gt;, the Universal
		  Solvent for such issues, we're lucky that &lt;term&gt; can mediate here. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
