<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9202" status="changed"> 
  <title>Non-breaking spaces and special characters</title> 
  <shortdesc>Special characters may be inserted into DITA content using Unicode
	 character escapes. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>non-breaking
			 space</indexterm><indexterm>hyphenation</indexterm><indexterm>special
			 characters</indexterm><indexterm>Unicode</indexterm><indexterm>character
			 escapes</indexterm><indexterm>numeric character
			 references</indexterm><indexterm>ASCII</indexterm><indexterm>escape
			 characters</indexterm><indexterm>hexadecimal character
			 references</indexterm><indexterm>entities</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Your authoring tool may allow the insertion of non-breaking spaces
		between words. Non-breaking spaces are intended for use when the separation of
		two adjacent words through line wrapping will result in a loss of meaning or
		legibility. For example, some authors prefer values and their units, such as 
		<q>12 kg</q>, to be treated as a single word. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Likewise, soft hyphens are intended for use when there is a preferred
		point for the breaking of a word during line wrapping. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Some mark-up languages support 
		<term>entities</term>, which allow special characters (not included in
		the standard character set or not associated with keyboard keys) to be defined
		using a memorable shortcut. For example, HTML has a 
		<codeph>&amp;nbsp;</codeph> entity for non-breaking spaces. Regardless,
		provided a character is included in the relevant Unicode character set, it can
		be included in XML-based content using hexadecimal 
		<term>numeric character references</term>, or 
		<term>character escapes</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Although XML supports entities, the DITA standard itself does not define
		any text entities. Nonetheless, character escapes can be used. The character
		escapes for commonly used special characters is: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>non-breaking space 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><codeph>&amp;#xA0;</codeph> 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>soft hyphen 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><codeph>&amp;#xAD;</codeph> 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>micro symbol 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><codeph>&amp;#xB5;</codeph> 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>division symbol 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><codeph>&amp;#x247;</codeph> 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>non-breaking hyphen</dt>
					<dd><codeph>&amp;#x2011</codeph></dd>
				</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>en dash 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><codeph>&amp;#x2013;</codeph> 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>em dash 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><codeph>&amp;#x2014;</codeph> 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>ellipsis 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><codeph>&amp;#x2026;</codeph> 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_9C64586E07D64D4785536EE4EB0E3D5D"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Eliot Kimber responding to Wayne Brisette, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">To
		  align some of the code and make sure it stays in place, writers are using the
		  non-breaking space. Our content management system is storing these characters
		  as &amp;nbsp; characters. When exported back to FrameMaker, they reconvert to
		  non-breaking spaces. However, when I opened these in a different DITA editor to
		  look at them, the non-breaking spaces didn't exist, they were converted to
		  plain spaces. I can't find anything in the DITA spec that talks about
		  non-breaking spaces, is there any real standard in DITA? It's not a DITA
		  feature, it's a Unicode feature (remembering that all XML documents are, by
		  definition, Unicode documents). Unicode defines a character \u00A0, which is a
		  non-breaking space. This character can be entered in any XML document using the
		  numeric character reference &amp;#xA0;. However, many XML processors or editors
		  may normalize &amp;#xA0; into a regular space. The syntax you show,
		  "&amp;nbsp;" is an XML text entity. The DITA standard does not define any text
		  entities (because DITA does not require the use of DTDs, in which such entities
		  are declared). However, within a given XML document (of any type), you can
		  declare the entity yourself, e.g.: &lt;!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC
		  "http://example.com/doctypes/mytopicshell" "topic.dtd" [ &lt;!ENTITY nbsp
		  "&amp;#xa0;" &gt; ]&gt;
		  &lt;topic&gt;&lt;title&gt;Don't&amp;nbsp;Break&amp;nbsp;Me&lt;/title&gt;&lt;/topic&gt;
		  
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Rhonda Bracey, Cybertext Blog"
				href="https://cybertext.wordpress.com/2008/12/30/ellipses-for-missing-text/"
				format="html" scope="external">
				<p>An autobiography I am editing contains correspondence from which several
					paragraphs have (intentionally) been omitted. Any advice on the best way to
					indicate that these paragraphs have been omitted? I would have thought ellipses
					were appropriate, but they look rather odd and lonely in-between paragraphs. If
					ellipses are appropriate, where should they be placed? </p>
				<p>My response: </p>
				<p>Details on using ellipses are on p110 of the 6th edition of the Australian Style
					Manual for authors editors and printers. In essence, yes you can use them to
					show omissions. The format is [text] [space] ... [space] [text]. </p>
			</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
