<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9149" status="new"> 
  <title>Paragraphs (and other block elements) within notes</title> 
  <shortdesc>Avoid using block elements within notes. Only when a note is
	 comprised of more than one idea or point should child block elements be used. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>note</indexterm><indexterm>p</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>paragraphs<indexterm>inside
				notes</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>note
			 element</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>note</synph> element can contain one or more paragraph
		(<synph>p</synph>) or other 
		<term>block data</term> elements. Both 
		<synph>note</synph> and 
		<synph>p</synph> are block elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Mark-up options of: 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock>&lt;note&gt;
 There are four forced induction models.
&lt;/note&gt;</codeblock> 
	 <p>and 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock>&lt;note&gt;
 &lt;p&gt;There are four forced induction models.&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/note&gt;</codeblock> 
	 <p>are both valid, but using both mark-up options will result in
		inconsistency. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is arguable that the two options are semantically different. A
		paragraph is a self-contained unit dealing with a single idea. A note has a
		separate semantic purpose, to highlight ancillary or associated ideas. A single
		note therefore has no need to contain a paragraph. However, in many cases,
		there will be more than one ancillary (note) idea, resulting in a need to break
		the note text into constituent blocks. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The simplest form of mark-up reflects the best practice. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">If there is just one block of text in the note, then
		the note should be left as string-only. This stores the minimum of mark-up, and
		simplifies the processed output. If there are multiple blocks in the note, then
		paragraphs, lists (or other block elements) should be used. Never start with
		string data followed by a block. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">In a set of notes, if there is a need for one note to
		include block elements, then all notes in the set should be consistently
		treated. Using mixed mark-up methods (blocks in some notes and string-only in
		others) are likely to result in inconsistent rendering of the output. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">String-only text should not be used in the same note
		alongside block elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_1EEBB9F57CDD4E80A6E0BF88E680AE82"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>This rule conforms with similar rules for block items in table cells
		  (<xref href="c_Paragraphs_Inside_Tables.dita#D3760" type="concept"
		  format="dita" scope="local"><?xm-replace_text Paragraphs (and other block elements) within tables?></xref>)
		  and block items within lists (<xref scope="local"
		  href="c_Paragraphs_within_List_Items.dita#D3980" type="concept" format="dita"><?xm-replace_text  Paragraphs (and other block elements) within list items?></xref>).
		  
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
