<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9177" status="new"> 
  <title>Paragraphs in reference topics</title> 
  <shortdesc>Paragraph (<synph>p</synph>) elements should not be used in
	 reference topics, as reference topics are intended to contain facts, not ideas.
	 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>reference
			 topic<indexterm>paragraphs
				in</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>p</indexterm><indexterm>refsyn</indexterm><indexterm>section</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>paragraphs<indexterm>in
				reference topics</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Reference topics are designed to contain look-up information, typically 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		in a tabular form. As such, paragraph elements containing more narrative ideas
		than look-up data will normally have no place in a reference topic. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The DITA standard does not permit 
		<synph>p</synph> elements in the body of a reference topic unless
		contained within elements such as 
		<synph>refsyn</synph> and 
		<synph>section</synph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Do not use workarounds (such as embedding p elements
		in sections without titles) in order to include a paragraph. Avoid inserting
		multiple paragraphs in syntax descriptions (<synph>refsyn</synph> elements), as
		these elements are intended to be brief descriptions. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>As with other information types, you should avoid using section elements
		wherever possible. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_B1014A03BFD041B9B31D2256E6B9DE38"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Craig Sandvik, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p>Yves Barbion wrote: &gt; I see that a &lt;p&gt; is not permitted in
			 &lt;refbody&gt;; it needs to be wrapped in a &lt;section&gt;. Is there any
			 specific reason for this or is this a bug &gt; in the DTD? It's deliberate.
			 References are expected to have sections right from the beginning, unlike
			 concepts. If you want lead-in text, you still have the ability to include a
			 &lt;shortdesc&gt; or &lt;abstract&gt;. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>You can also cheat and omit &lt;title&gt; from the first
			 &lt;section&gt;. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
