<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_C9721798407C4857A577EAEC318D2EB3"> 
  <title>Phrases in different languages</title> 
  <shortdesc>Words without a specific semantic meaning that are in a different
	 language to the remainder of the topic can be identified by setting the
	 containing element's 
	 <synph>xml:lang</synph> attribute to the international standard code for
	 that language. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>language
			 tags</indexterm><indexterm>ph
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>ph</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>xml:lang</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>xml:lang
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>foreign words and
			 phrases</indexterm><indexterm>ISO 639</indexterm><indexterm>IETF BCP
			 47</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Words or phrases in different human languages, dialects or spelling
		conventions can be identified through a phrase (<synph>ph</synph>) element with
		the 
		<synph>xml:lang</synph> attribute storing the name of the language in the
		IETF BCP 47 and ISO 639 standard conventions. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If these words or phrases have a particular semantic meaning, such as a
		term expressed in a foreign language, then the mark-up element used should have
		its 
		<synph>xml:lang</synph> attribute set to the foreign language. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if the term 
		<term>schadenfreude</term> is used within an English language topic, the
		mark-up would be: 
		<codeblock>&lt;p&gt;
  He experienced a sense of &lt;term xml:lang="de"&gt;schadenfreude&lt;/term&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_4F96F539447A419782CF2F64CDC3A6C2"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/"
		reftitle="W3C Recommendation for Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition)">E
		  
		  <p><b>2.12 Language Identification</b> 
		  </p> 
		  <p>In document processing, it is often useful to identify the natural
			 or formal language in which the content is written. A special 
			 <synph>xref</synph> attribute named 
			 <synph>xml:lang</synph> may be inserted in documents to specify the
			 language used in the contents and attribute values of any element in an XML
			 document. In valid documents, this attribute, like any other, MUST be declared
			 if it is used. The values of the attribute are language identifiers as defined
			 by 
			 <cite>[IETF BCP 47], Tags for the Identification of Languages</cite>;
			 in addition, the empty string may be specified. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>For example: 
			 <codeblock>&lt;p xml:lang="en"&gt;The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.&lt;/p&gt;
 &lt;p xml:lang="en-GB"&gt;What colour is it?&lt;/p&gt;
 &lt;p xml:lang="en-US"&gt;What color is it?&lt;/p&gt;
 &lt;sp who="Faust" desc='leise' xml:lang="de"&gt;
  &lt;l&gt;Habe nun, ach! Philosophie,&lt;/l&gt;
  &lt;l&gt;Juristerei, und Medizin&lt;/l&gt;
  &lt;l&gt;und leider auch Theologie&lt;/l&gt;
  &lt;l&gt;durchaus studiert mit heißem Bemüh'n.&lt;/l&gt;
 &lt;/sp&gt;</codeblock> 
		  </p> 
		  <p>The language specified by 
			 <synph>xml:lang</synph> applies to the element where it is specified
			 (including the values of its attributes), and to all elements in its content
			 unless overridden with another instance of 
			 <synph>xml:lang</synph>. In particular, the empty value of 
			 <synph>xml:lang</synph> is used on an element B to override a
			 specification of 
			 <synph>xml:lang</synph> on an enclosing element A, without specifying
			 another language. Within B, it is considered that there is no language
			 information available, just as if 
			 <synph>xml:lang</synph> had not been specified on B or any of its
			 ancestors. Applications determine which of an element's attribute values and
			 which parts of its character content, if any, are treated as language-dependent
			 values described by 
			 <synph>xml:lang</synph>. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
  <related-links> 
	 <link
	 href="http://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry"
	 scope="external" format="html"> 
		<linktext>IANA language sub-tag registry 
		</linktext> 
	 </link> 
	 <link href="http://www.w3.org/International/articles/language-tags/"
	 format="html" scope="external"> 
		<linktext>Language tags in HTML and XML 
		</linktext> 
	 </link> 
  </related-links> 
</concept> 
