<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9333" status="new"> 
  <title>The 
	 <synph>keycol</synph> and 
	 <synph>refcols</synph> attributes</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>keycol</synph> and 
	 <synph>refcols</synph> attributes are used to control the way in which 
	 <synph>choicetable</synph>, 
	 <synph>simpletable</synph> and 
	 <synph>properties</synph> tables are processed to a reading format. The 
	 <synph>keycol</synph> attribute nominates which column is used for row
	 headings, while 
	 <synph>refcols</synph> nominates which columns will be automatically linked
	 (although this functionality is not yet implemented in all publishing tools). 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>refcols</indexterm><indexterm>keycol</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>refcols
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>keycol
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>choicetable</indexterm><indexterm>simpletable</indexterm><indexterm>properties</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>choicetable
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>simpletable
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>properties element</indexterm><indexterm>row
			 headings</indexterm><indexterm>linking<indexterm>in
				tables</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>tables<indexterm>refcols
				attribute</indexterm><indexterm>keycol
				attribute</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>choicetable</synph>, 
		<synph>simpletable</synph> and 
		<synph>properties</synph> table elements have a 
		<synph>refcols</synph> attribute and a 
		<synph>keycol</synph> attribute. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The key column (<synph>keycol</synph>) attribute nominates which column
		in the table should be used for any row headings. For most publishing tools, a
		setting of 
		<userinput>0</userinput> (no column is the key column) will result in all
		of the row content displaying in Roman text, while a setting of greater than
		zero will result in the corresponding column being displayed in bold (or
		otherwise highlighted). For example, a setting of 
		<userinput>1</userinput> results in the first column content displaying
		in bold. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The cross-reference columns (<synph>refcols</synph>) attribute functions
		in a similar way to 
		<synph>keycol</synph> attribute. It designates the number of the columns
		that contain references, with the intention that the contents of these columns
		will be automated linked during processing to an output format. Columns are
		identified by a space-delimited list of numbers. For example, a setting of 
		<userinput>1 3</userinput> indicates that the first and third columns
		contain cross-reference information. The 
		<synph>refcols</synph> attribute is not used by many, if any, publishing
		tools. However, it is provided in the DITA standard for possible future use. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_5E3505C000FA4E5E9241E9594C1E5D2F"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/15537"
		 reftitle="Kristen James Eberlein, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> I believe that the
		  @refcol (sic) attribute -- while listed in the DITA specification -- is not
		  currently supported by the DITA OT. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
