<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_568DD52E5D4D4879ADD0AA7C9D02617D"> 
  <title>Column and row headers</title> 
  <shortdesc>Information in tables is most often arranged in columns, although
	 some tables are arranged into rows, and complex tables into both rows and
	 columns. Column headings are defined using the 
	 <synph>thead</synph> element, and row headings with the 
	 <synph>rowheader</synph> attribute on the 
	 <synph>table</synph> element or the 
	 <synph>keycol</synph> attribute on the 
	 <synph>simpletable</synph> element. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>simpletable
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>table
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>rowheader</indexterm><indexterm>keycol</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>simpletable</indexterm><indexterm>table</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>rowheader
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>keycol
			 attribute</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody> 
	 <p>A column header row is specified through a 
		<synph>thead</synph> row in the table. The 
		<synph>thead</synph> element contains normal table cell
		(<synph>entry</synph>) elements.
	 </p>
	 <p>If the first cell in each row is a heading (in other words, if the first
		column is a header column), you can specify this in the standard table by
		setting the 
		<synph>rowheader</synph> attribute to 
	 <option>firstcol</option>. You cannot specify any other column to be the
	 header column in a standard table. 
	 </p>
	 <p>With a 
		<synph>simpletable</synph>, you can use the 
		<synph>keycol</synph> attribute of the 
		<synph>simpletable</synph> element to nominate the number of the column
		that contains the row headings. For example, setting the 
		<synph>keycol</synph> attribute of the 
		<synph>simpletable</synph> element to 
		<userinput>1</userinput>.
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_BE3A05A903D04FB588BC221785BCAF42"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/16740" scope="external" format="html"> 
		  <p>&gt;&gt; I have some tables to convert where the heading is for a
			 row rather than a column - just like a lot of "Contains" and "Contained by"
			 tables in the DITA Specification, in fact - and couldn't see where to
			 start.&lt;&lt; 
		  </p> 
		  <p>One is to switch from the CALS table element &lt;table&gt; to DITA's
			 other table element &lt;simpletable&gt;. &lt;simpletable&gt; has a keycol
			 attribute which you would set to 1 to make the first column a heading. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Another is to stick to &lt;table&gt; which has a rowheader
			 attribute. Set rowheader="firstcol " to indicate that the first column of a row
			 is a heading. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
