<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_0AB1120C7BD84716978E34C3ED98A611" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Short descriptions</title> 
  <shortdesc>The short description (or 
	 <term>shortdesc</term>) is arguably the most important component of a DITA
	 topic, and is also one of the most difficult elements to write. Short
	 descriptions should be written for every topic. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>shortdesc
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>short
			 description</indexterm><indexterm>abstract</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Short descriptions serve multiple purposes within a document. This is
		one of the reasons that it is difficult to categorise 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> as content (data) or metadata. Technically, 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> is metadata because it falls outside the topic 
		<synph>body</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>To complicate matters further, DITA includes a semantically similar
		element, the 
		<synph>abstract</synph>, which serves a similar function (and can act as
		an alternative) to 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Writing short descriptions induces the writer to clarify the main thesis
		of the topic. If you cannot write a short description of within the recommended
		50 word limit, the topic is probably too complex and needs to be divided. If
		the short description doesn't add any meaning to the topic, then the topic may
		not contain a coherent idea. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">A concise and complete short description should be
		written for every DITA topic. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_D72927B7F7BA420C83C3AC5191BD70E9"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>References</title> 
		<ul id="ul_F5409854CB75459DA20F6F47B9EF84DD"> 
		  <li id="li_524521F32F2F486FA6B3F7DEE8D475A7"
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_references.dita#concept_60C4D0117D5941E4A5F815B50A7F8454/cite_Eberlein_2007"><?xm-replace_text List Item?>
		  </li> 
		</ul> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
