<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_FF2B816120DF42BCB0A27F30561661ED"> 
  <title>Short descriptions in the ditamap</title> 
  <shortdesc>Short descriptions specified in a DITA topic can be overriden by
	 alternative short description elements in the ditamap. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm><indexterm>topicmeta</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>short
			 description<indexterm>specified in
				ditamap</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topicmeta</indexterm><indexterm>alternative
			 short description</indexterm><indexterm>overriding topic metadata in the
			 ditamap</indexterm><indexterm>linktext<indexterm>specified in
				ditamap</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>A short description (<synph>shortdesc</synph>) element naturally belongs
		in the topic. The short description is typically rendered in the output as: 
	 </p> 
	 <ul id="ul_B60380A5F72E4B5A801C46412C7E66ED"> 
		<li id="li_7346E86B4E064A4790F0B5C8CACF8BB7"> the first paragraph of the
		  topic 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_0D895DE65D3A424BB6D15204060107B3">link preview text (in
		  hypertext outputs) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_7434AC1E6B054DF782F646C3BCDC4668">subordinate topic preview
		  text in the topic's parent 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 <p>In some circumstances, you may want to override the subordinate topic
		preview text with a publication-specific, alternative short description. To do
		this, you need to specify the alternative short description in the ditamap.
		This is done by adding a 
		<synph>shortdesc</synph> element to the 
		<synph>topicmeta</synph> element within the 
		<term>topicref</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>An example of the topicref mark-up is: 
		<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="c_starting_xrw.dita" format="dita"&gt;
  &lt;topicmeta&gt;
    &lt;shortdesc&gt;The XRW is started by entering the PIN into the security
    keypad, and then turning the ignition key.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
  &lt;/topicmeta&gt;
&lt;/topicref&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <note>Setting a 
		<synph>linktext</synph> element within the 
		<term>topicref's</term> 
		<synph>topicmeta</synph> will similarly result in the generated
		hierarchical links in hypertext output using this alternative link text, rather
		than the topic's title. 
	 </note> 
	 <section id="section_9982B2AF11E24B38A165ADA3D87B63F8"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/18413"
		reftitle="Kris Eberlein, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> You can use the content of a
		  &lt;shortdesc&gt; set at the DITA map level to override ONLY the short
		  description used for link previews. There is one exception: You set the
		  @copy-to attribute on the &lt;topicref&gt; element. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
	 <section id="section_90546E4F63D54BF6A9470ABF427A9319"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Observations</title> 
		<p>Originally wrote the following, but found that this didn't work 
		  <q>as advertised!</q> 
		</p> 
		<p> 
		  <draft-comment>This text might be useful for a topic about the copy-to
			 attribute, and about title overrides. 
		  </draft-comment> 
		</p> 
		<p>In other cases, you may want to override all instances of the topic's
		  short description with an alternative short description specified in the map.
		  To do this, you must set the 
		  <synph>copy-to</synph> attribute in the 
		  <synph>topicref</synph> element in the map to specify an alternative
		  file name for a second copy of the output file. When this nominated file is
		  created, the 
		  <synph>shortdesc</synph> (and any 
		  <synph>linktext</synph> element, if specified) in the topic reference
		  will be used in the duplicated topic. 
		</p> 
		<p>In the following example, the output HTML topic will be named 
		  <filepath>wrx_start.html</filepath>, because the copy-to is specifying
		  an alternative DITA file name of 
		  <filepath>wrx_start.dita</filepath>. 
		  <codeblock>&lt;topicref href="c_starting_wrx.dita" copy-to="wrx_start.dita" &gt;
  &lt;topicmeta&gt;
    &lt;shortdesc&gt;The WRX is started by entering the PIN into the security
    keypad, and then turning the ignition key.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
  &lt;/topicmeta&gt;
&lt;/topicref&gt;</codeblock>All short description instances will use the ditamap 
		  <term>topicref's</term> short description rather than the topic's. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
