<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D9342" rev="1.2" xml:lang="en" status="new"> 
  <title>The text element</title> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>text
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>text</indexterm><indexterm>ph</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>ph
			 versus text</indexterm><indexterm>text versus
			 ph</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>text</synph> element, introduced in 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		identifies a snippet of plain text that has no other special meaning (or
		presentation requirement). It should only be used when no other semantic
		element is appropriate. The 
		<ph>text</ph> element is almost identical to the 
		<synph>ph</synph> element, but cannot contain nested semantic element in
		the way that 
		<synph>ph</synph> can contain, for example, 
		<synph>image</synph> elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>At first look, there seems to be no reason for having an element to
		contain text that has no semantic meaning! However, there are special
		circumstances when the 
		<synph>text</synph> element makes sense, and that's when some text needs
		to be distinguished from other text, and when no other elements are allowed.
		The most likely example of this is when some text needs to be transcluded with
		a 
		<term>conref</term> into a place where other elements are not permitted. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Do not use 
		<synph>text</synph> in a place where 
		<synph>ph</synph> is valid. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_37EA0C8F60594CCAA52F0C1A98C70495"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		reftitle="Overview of DITA 1.2 presentation by Kristen James Ebelein, RealWorld DITA Conference, 14 September 2009">&lt;text&gt;
		  element allows semantic-free reuse of small pieces of text. Use of &lt;text&gt;
		  is restricted to locations that do not allow semantic elements. 
		</lq> 
		<draft-comment>Need to associate this topic with a topic describing the
		  ph element, when that's available. A good example is that ph can't be used
		  inside term, but text can be. This would mean that rather than use ph as a
		  container for variables in a conref source, text would be better. In the
		  Artefact, a variable of "specialisation", set as a ph (in 1.1), can't be used
		  inside a term. 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
