<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9343" rev="1.2" status="new"> 
  <title>The 
	 <synph>coderef</synph> element</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>coderef</synph> element is used to reference external files, such as
	 code samples, that are then imported as part of the processing to be rendered
	 as standard text. The 
	 <synph>coderef</synph> is an alternative to the 
	 <synph>codeblock</synph> element for cases when the code is stored or
	 maintained in its original form outside the DITA source. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>codeblock
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>coderef
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>transclusion</indexterm><indexterm>escape
			 characters</indexterm><indexterm>conref</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>coderef</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>coderef</synph> element, introduced in 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		is a reference element like 
		<synph>xref</synph> and 
		<synph>conref</synph>. Its purpose is to allow the transclusion of XML
		and other blocks of code from an external file. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, you may want to include a sample block of HTML code stored
		in its own HTML file. When the 
		<synph>coderef</synph> is processed, the referenced code file is
		imported, 
		<term>escaped</term> (to convert the tagging delimiting characters such
		as 
		<q>&lt;</q> are displayed, rather than treated as DITA instructions), and
		then output in the same way as a static 
		<synph>codeblock</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_46AF48EB3E5D419D8E03A201CAAAC0C0"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Overview of DITA 1.2 presentation by Kristen James Ebelein, RealWorld DITA Conference, 14 September 2009">&lt;coderef&gt;
		  element allows verbatim inclusion of text (such as source code). 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Don Day, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17080" scope="external" format="html"> The coderef
		  element is new with 
		  <ph
			conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.
		  Processing for the still-in-development 1.2 spec is supported in the latest
		  DITA OT 1.5 tools (at least for HTML output). If you commit to using 1.2
		  features, be aware that you create a dependency on content interchange with
		  other sharers of your topics, and that things can change in the DTDs before 1.2
		  becomes fully approved. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Stan Doherty, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17083" scope="external" format="html"> The new
		  DITA1.2 &lt;coderef&gt; element indeed works in all recent versions of
		  DITA-OT1.5. I use it extensively in my production topics. Here's an example: 
		  <codeblock>&lt;codeblock&gt;
 &lt;coderef href="sources/ formatted_ text.txt" /&gt;
&lt;/codeblock&gt;</codeblock> 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/200712/msg00024.html" scope="external" format="html"
		reftitle="Eliot Kimber, OASIS DITA TC mailing list">The current wording: 
		  <q>Create new coderef element modelled after xref, with equivalent
			 attributes but no subelements, since the purpose of the element is to pull in
			 the targetted file into the containing codeblock element, massaging &lt; and
			 &gt; characters as necessary to make it valid CDATA.</q>" Inappropriately
		  describes a transformation, as though the processing result was *always* to
		  literally embed the referenced content in some new XML instance. It should
		  simply say something like: 
		  <q>the purpose is to present the literal character content of the
			 referenced resource as though it occurred at the point of reference (e.g.,
			 within a CDATA marked section or with any XML mark-up characters escaped).</q>.
		  
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
