<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D5031" status="changed"> 
  <title>Restricting tasks to one procedure only</title> 
  <shortdesc>Task topics can only contain one procedure, with one continuous
	 set of numbered steps. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>task
			 topic</indexterm><indexterm>procedures<indexterm>one per task
				topic</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>nested
			 procedures</indexterm><indexterm>substeps
			 element</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The task information type is specifically designed to contain one
		procedure only. If you feel you need to document two procedures in one task
		topic, you should re-examine your approach. Two procedures should be documented
		in two task topics. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If necessary, you can output two DITA task topics to one single output
		HTML topic, using the 
		<synph>chunk</synph> attribute. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If you feel that you need to restart numbering within a task, then you
		probably have more than one procedure in the topic, and should split them into
		two separate task topics. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In some cases, what appears to be two procedures may turn out to be a
		nested procedure, in which case the 
		<synph>substeps</synph> element can be used. The 
		<synph>choicetable</synph> structure is also useful for procedures where
		a step has a number of alternative options. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If a procedure can be performed in two different ways, you should
		document those alternatives in two separate topics. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/11896"
		 reftitle="Alexandr Artemov"> 
		  <p>I have problems with making list in the task. The problem is that I
			 cannot restart numbering. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>For example I wish to write such information: 
		  </p> 
		  <ol id="ol_561506BC568E42A78305AF03F5F9A17F"> 
			 <li id="li_D2AAD59729B84EEDB84DCFB35BEFA018">1. Raise your hand. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_54EE6E9D41F3496CB483584DFF0C057E">2. Push the window. 
			 </li> 
		  </ol> 
		  <p>Also you can do it by the leg. 
		  </p> 
		  <ol id="ol_DA16BE33CCE348719212038A65928AFF"> 
			 <li id="li_0BC00D9A929548F2A4E7B768F074D2E4">1. Raise your leg. 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_AE69509CD2D74725A403BDDA85372C6D">2. Kick the window. 
			 </li> 
		  </ol> 
		  <p>All the DITA tags don't give me means to restart numbering. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/11899">DITA
		  tasks are deliberately very constrained, partly to disallow what it considers
		  to be lazy topic-writing. (Not that your example is lazy, but it has the same
		  structure as lazy tasks, and the DITA DTD can't tell the difference. You are
		  just collateral damage.) So, the short answer is "you can't do that". It's hard
		  to say what is the best way of doing what you want. There have been past
		  discussions about this kind of thing on dita-users. What works is going to
		  depend on the factors that you stripped out of your example to get your point
		  across, so you may just have to try different ways of writing the task until
		  you get something that feels right. If I were the author (and if I were
		  actually writing about opening windows, rather than the real task that you have
		  in mind), I'd probably create two tasks ("Opening the window with the hand" and
		  "Opening the window with the foot"), and wrap them in a container task that
		  itself has no &lt;steps&gt; element. Or I would decide that this isn't really a
		  task, and use standard &lt;ol&gt; and &lt;li&gt; in a concept. Or I would see
		  if I could get away with just using a &lt;note&gt; in step 1 ("You can also use
		  your leg"). Or I would use &lt;choices&gt; or &lt;choicetable&gt; in step 1 to
		  list the body parts that are suitable for window-opening. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Julio Vazquez, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/11922">Personally,
		  I would lean towards using a choicetable with headings like, Limb and Method.
		  In the left column would be Arm and Leg and in the right column would be
		  ordered lists with the steps. This makes the entire task boil down to a single
		  unordered step with the command Open the window followed by the choicetable. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
