<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9111" status="new"> 
  <title>Messages displayed in a user interface</title> 
  <shortdesc>DITA has four elements for marking up system messages, error
	 messages, and other output from a computer system, or equipment user interface.
	 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>system
			 messages</indexterm><indexterm>user interface
			 messages</indexterm><indexterm>messages<indexterm>system</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>msgph
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>msgblock
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>systemoutput element</indexterm><indexterm>msgnum
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>msgph</indexterm><indexterm>msgblock</indexterm><indexterm>system
				output</indexterm><indexterm>msgnum</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Whether it is through a software application, a machine instrument
		panel, or a consumer electronic device display, information is commonly
		displayed to the user through some sort of user interface. In some cases the
		information takes the form of lights, gauges, and dials, in other cases the
		information is audible, and in other cases it is textual or graphical. When
		describing these messages from the equipment in DITA, a number of semantic
		elements are used. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The main message elements are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>msgph 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A short textual message displayed on a screen, as a sound, or on a
			 printout. This element is used when the message will be described or quoted
			 within an existing paragraph or block element. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>msgblock 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>A long, multi-line textual message displayed on a screen, as a
			 sound, or on a printout. This element is used when the message will be
			 described or quoted in its own block element (or paragraph). 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>msgnum 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>The identification number of a message, such as an error message,
			 usually displayed on a screen or instrument panel, or on a printout. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>systemoutput 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>The response from a system to user input of some kind. This element
			 is part of the DITA software domain. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Error messages are usually made up of a 
		<synph>msgnum</synph> element (the error code) and a 
		<synph>msgph</synph> or 
		<synph>msgblock</synph> element. Likewise, status messages are best
		described with 
		<synph>msgph</synph> or 
		<synph>msgblock</synph>. The result displayed on a calculator after a
		user has entered an equation is best described with a 
		<synph>systemoutput</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The distinction between a message and system output is that the message
		is something produced by the system or device as part of its function, while a
		system output is something that the system returns as a direct result of
		something that the user inputs. Another way of putting it is that the 
		<synph>systemoutput</synph> is used in conjunction with 
		<synph>userinput</synph> to describe a 
		<q>conversation</q> between the user and the system. 
	 </p> 
	 <p> 
		<draft-comment>What about a light like the 
		  <ph
			conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  PIN pad which is both a user input device an output device? 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
