<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9212" status="new"> 
  <title>Working with tables</title> 
  <shortdesc>Tables should be used for storing tabular information, and not to
	 achieve formatting outcomes. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>table
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>tabular
			 information</indexterm><indexterm>separation of content and
			 form</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>colspec</indexterm><indexterm>table</indexterm><indexterm>entry</indexterm><indexterm>row</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>row
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>entry
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>colwidth</indexterm><indexterm>rowsep
				attribute</indexterm><indexterm>scale</indexterm><indexterm>valign</indexterm><indexterm>frame</indexterm><indexterm>colsep</indexterm><indexterm>colwidth</indexterm><indexterm>pgwide</indexterm><indexterm>align</indexterm><indexterm>char</indexterm><indexterm>charoff</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>colspec
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>align attribute</indexterm><indexterm>char
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>charoff attribute</indexterm><indexterm>colsep
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>colwidth attribute</indexterm><indexterm>frame
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>pgwide attribute</indexterm><indexterm>rowsep
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>scale attribute</indexterm><indexterm>valign
			 attribute</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The principle of the separation of content and form reaches a stumbling
		block when it comes to tabular information and tables. Tables are both a
		content structure and a presentational form construct. The content of a table
		is a set of data 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		into rows with a common structure. The form of a table is its column and row
		widths, its borders, its padding, etc. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>As a matter of principle, a DITA topic shouldn't be storing any
		information about how any content is presented. However, there is a need to
		specify some formatting information that is specific to an individual table,
		and that cannot be applied automatically during the publishing process. DITA
		does therefore include the capacity to store some formatting information
		alongside content in table elements. When content and form are bound together
		in this way, re-use of the content becomes more difficult. For example, if I
		specify that a table should be 25 cm wide, the topic containing the table can't
		be easily output to a page or column narrower than 25 cm. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">For this reason, tables should be treated carefully.
		They should be avoided where there is no loss of meaning, they should never be
		used as a formatting device alone, and any unavoidable formatting information
		should be kept to a minimum. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>DITA's table content model is based on the OASIS interchange form of 
		<term>CALS</term> tables. It is not possible to create a table 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		with a footer based on the 
		<synph>thead</synph> element, because the underlying content model
		specifies that a table can only have a 
		<synph>thead</synph> then a 
		<synph>tbody</synph>, and not two 
		<synph>thead</synph> elements or two 
		<synph>tbody</synph> elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The formatting elements and attributes within DITA table structures are:
		
	 <ul id="ul_17CEF9879EE94E9FA8D4761C30B166C0"> 
		<li id="li_8DFE5C791D094B6E994011EC9F4D8B81"><synph>colspec</synph>
		  (column specification) element (<synph>tgroup</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_AE36C46EA2A14BD58528E0AB644A819D"><synph>align</synph>
		  attribute (<synph>colspec</synph>, 
		  <synph>tgroup</synph>, 
		  <synph>entry</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_3D8EDFF4C57F4F4BAFFE1ED26C456E57"><synph>char</synph>
		  (character alignment) attribute (<synph>colspec</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_FB3B7F7C8BAE45548E456D6102467D12"><synph>charoff</synph>
		  (character offset) attribute (<synph>colspec</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_47F29DDD3B294D238439CECC2318F2E2"><synph>colsep</synph>
		  (column separator) attribute (<synph>table</synph>, 
		  <synph>colspec</synph>, 
		  <synph>tgroup</synph>, 
		  <synph>entry</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_4E5B0A7660D5416C8F7CE74C1C490F1A"><synph>colwidth</synph>
		  (column width) attribute (<synph>colspec</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_1B447C1A3EC94F4D84635B06F4E527DE"><synph>frame</synph>
		  attribute (<synph>table</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_197D27A92D974C5E80AC6AF79D866E94"><synph>pgwide</synph> (page
		  wide placement) attribute (<synph>table</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_F8CDD43C369C446BA5F574BBC56E1F30"><synph>rowsep</synph> (row
		  specification) attribute (<synph>table</synph>, 
		  <synph>colspec</synph>, 
		  <synph>tgroup</synph>, 
		  <synph>row</synph>, 
		  <synph>entry</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_719B02A841E4400C8E40EDDF9AC0BF4B"><synph>scale</synph>
		  attribute (<synph>table</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_A1EE1BCE2DB54B55A69DF891B41665B7"><synph>valign</synph>
		  (vertical alignment) attribute (<synph>tbody</synph>, 
		  <synph>row</synph>, 
		  <synph>entry</synph>) 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In addition, there is a 
		<synph>rowheader</synph> attribute (of the 
		<synph>table</synph> element) that nominates whether the first rows
		contains heading information; this is arguably 
		<term>content metadata</term> rather than 
		<term>form</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>DITA does not support table footers. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
