<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9345" status="new"> 
  <title>Different graphics for different published media</title> 
  <shortdesc>When a graphic needs to be presented differently for different
	 output media, you should either include multiple versions of the graphics and
	 use conditional processing to filter the required output, or use the 
	 <synph>keyref</synph> feature. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>keyref
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>keyref</indexterm><indexterm>conkeyref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm><indexterm>conkeyref
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm><indexterm>graphics<indexterm>different
				resolutions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>single
			 sourcing<indexterm>graphics</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In many cases, the graphic used for a particular publishing output needs
		to be different to that used for an alternative output. For example, a high
		resolution PNG image might be required for the PDF output of a topic, but a
		smaller JPG image required for an eBook output. 
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2">The 
		<synph>keyref</synph> attribute introduced in 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		allows different image files to be used for the same illustration when a
		different map is used. Provided a different map file is used for PDF and eBook
		outputs in the preceding example, the keyref would point to different image
		files in each map. 
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2">This technique would not be relevant if the same map was being
		used to generate both outputs. 
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2">Using the 
		<synph>conkeyref</synph> attribute would be another strategy, where the
		figure or image element is transcluded using 
		<term>conref</term>, where the conref source file is specified in the
		ditamap rather than in the 
		<synph>conref</synph> attribute in the topic. Different variants of the
		ditamap, sharing (through nesting) everything except the 
		<synph>conkeyref</synph> targets, would also be required to complete the
		process. 
	 </p> 
	 <note>Some publishing tools and processes also allow you to swap the images
		(during processing) with images of the appropriate size and resolution for the
		target output. 
	 </note> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
