<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_141498CD15574429BC13C95911FC8B60" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Image alignment, placement, and sizing</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>align</synph>, 
	 <synph>placement</synph>, 
	 <synph>width</synph>, and 
	 <synph>height</synph> attributes of the 
	 <synph>image</synph> element are used to specify the placement and size of
	 images when generated to an output delivery format. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>image</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>align</indexterm><indexterm>placement</indexterm><indexterm>height</indexterm><indexterm>width</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>height
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>width attribute</indexterm><indexterm>placement
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>align attribute</indexterm><indexterm>image
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>scaling images</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The placement of the image on the output page or screen is defined in
		the 
		<synph>placement</synph> and 
		<synph>align</synph> attributes. The 
		<synph>placement</synph> attribute can be set to 
	 <option>inline</option> (placing the image inline with the text in the
	 paragraph in which it is placed) or 
	 <option>break</option> (placing the image in its own block, with space
	 above and below it). The 
	 <synph>align</synph> attribute has valid values of 
	 <option>left</option>, 
	 <option>right</option>, 
	 <option>center</option> and 
	 <option>current</option>. These values specify how the image will be
	 aligned on the page or screen. The 
	 <synph>align</synph> attribute only has an effect if the placement is set
	 to 
	 <option>break</option>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">To display the image in its own block, use the image
		element independently of a paragraph element, set the 
		<synph>placement</synph> attribute to break, and the alignment to 
	 <option>left</option>, 
	 <option>right</option>, or 
	 <option>center</option>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">To display an image within a paragraph or other block
		element, set the 
		<synph>placement</synph> attribute to 
	 <option>inline</option>, and either omit the 
	 <synph>align</synph> attribute or set it to 
	 <option>current</option> (to inherit the alignment settings of the element
	 in which the image is contained). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>image</synph> element includes 
		<synph>height</synph> and 
		<synph>width</synph> attributes. These attributes are used to store the
		intended display height and width of the image in the output, expressed in one
		of a variety of units, including pixels (<option>px</option>), centimetres
	 (<option>cm</option>), points (<option>pt</option>) and inches
	 (<option>in</option>). 
	 </p> 
	 <note type="tip" product="academic_only">If you are using the DITA Open
		Toolkit for publishing, you will get the best results if you always use pixels
		as the unit for 
		<synph>height</synph> and 
		<synph>width</synph> attributes, with the dimensions being the actual
		dimensions of the image. (In other words, do not scale the image using the 
		<synph>height</synph> and 
		<synph>width</synph> attributes.) 
	 </note> 
	 <section id="section_52FB32A3D2F84D7B91EC22D42E1A0F98"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p> 
		  <lq reftitle="Craig Sandvik, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
			href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/15921" scope="external" format="html">Up until
			 DITA-OT 1.5, the fo plugin scales graphics from the dimensions supplied in the
			 DITA source to 72 dots per inch. This enlarges most graphics since typical
			 modern screenshots are at 96 dpi. Some workarounds for earlier versions: - If
			 your authoring tool allows it, remove the height and width attributes from the
			 &lt;image&gt; element in DITA source. - For the &lt;image&gt; element in DITA
			 source, set the height and width attributes with px (pixel) units, as in
			 "100px" - If you use a customization XSL, override named template "placeImage".
			 Copy and paste the template from xsl/fo/commons.xsl, then comment out the code
			 that scales @height and @width, or change 72 to a larger number (128 works well
			 for print). 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
		<lq> 
		  <p>Bitmap (or "raster") images are collections of pixels. Their
			 dimensions are normally expressed in pixels. When displayed on a computer
			 monitor, which is itself made up of pixels, what you see on the screen is what
			 you expect to see. A pixel is a variable measurement unit... it has a different
			 physical size depending upon the type of monitor or display being used. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>However, when you output a bitmap image to paper (or a paper
			 simulator like PDF), the pixels need to be somehow converted to fixed physical
			 measurements, such as millimetres. Some programs will scale the images to a
			 fixed size using the resolution of the printing device. For example, if you
			 have a 300 pixels per inch (DPI) printer, and you print a 300 pixel wide
			 picture, its physical size on the printout will be 1 inch. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>When using the PDF2 transformation in the DITA Open Toolkit, the
			 process uses 72 DPI as the basis for conversion to a fixed size. (72 DPI was
			 the typical resolution for a cathode ray tube computer monitor at an 800 x 600
			 setting.) Thus, our 300 pixel image will be displayed at a physical size of
			 300/72 inches, or 4.2 inches. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>So, this is why your images seem to be displaying at a larger size
			 in PDF than it in HTML format. Your monitor is displaying the image at perhaps
			 96 DPI, while the PDF is showing it at 72 DPI. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Now, for the possible solution. Firstly, make sure you always set
			 the width and height attributes for the image to the dimensions of the image,
			 in pixels. Don't use other measurements, such as 5cm. Don't scale the image by
			 using a measurement other than the natural size of the image. Always include
			 the px unit. (height="500" is very different to height="500px") 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
