<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9167" status="new"> 
  <title>Image file formats</title> 
  <shortdesc>Where there is no strong reason to choose another image file
	 format, you should use SVG or PNG file formats in DITA topics. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>image
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>image</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>SVG</indexterm><indexterm>PNG</indexterm><indexterm>BMP</indexterm><indexterm>TIF</indexterm><indexterm>EPS</indexterm><indexterm>GIF</indexterm><indexterm>file
			 formats<indexterm>image</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA supports a variety of image formats. A more accurate assertion is
		that you can place a reference to any sort of image file inside a DITA 
		<synph>image</synph> element, and it will be up to the publishing
		processor as to whether this image can be handled and generated into a reading
		format. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Typical image file types supported by current DITA processors include: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>GIF 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Compuserve Graphics Interchange Format 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>JPG 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Joint Photographic Experts Group format 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>BMP 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Microsoft Bitmap Picture format 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>TIF (or TIFF) 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Tagged Image File Format 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>PNG 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Portable Network Graphics format 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>EPS 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Encapsulated PostScript format 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>SVG 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd><term
			 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/term_SVG"><?xm-replace_text Term?></term>
			 XML format 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Unless you have specific reasons for choosing other
		formats, you should use SVG for line drawings and diagrams. Likewise, for
		photographs, use JPG with zero or low compression, particularly if you will be
		publishing to print formats. For other purposes, you should prefer PNG. If your
		publishing process does not support SVG, you may have to use PNG instead.
		However, a better approach is to use a publishing process which supports SVG. 
	 </p>
	 <note type="note">These recommendations on image file types may not apply
		for specific publishing scenarios. For example, if you are using DITA to
		publish to high quality print, the TIFF format may be the best choice.
	 </note> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
