<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9118" status="new"> 
  <title> Multimedia in DITA topics</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>object</synph> element is used to embed multimedia in DITA topics. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>object</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>object
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>multimedia</indexterm><indexterm>Flash</indexterm><indexterm>SWF</indexterm><indexterm>MPG</indexterm><indexterm>QuickTime</indexterm><indexterm>applets</indexterm><indexterm>Java
			 applets</indexterm><indexterm>movies</indexterm><indexterm>animation</indexterm><indexterm>video
			 clips</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Multimedia objects such as Flash animations, Java applets, and video
		files can be included in DITA content using the 
		<synph>object</synph> element. Obviously, when a topic which includes
		multimedia is output to paper, the object cannot be properly rendered. You may
		want to use conditional processing so that multimedia objects are only output
		to online delivery formats. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The DITA 
		<synph>object</synph> element is based on the HTML 
		<synph>object</synph> element, but with a smaller set of valid
		attributes. If your DITA authoring tool does not provide good support for
		embedding objects, you can alternatively use a Web authoring tool to place the 
		<synph>object</synph> in an HTML page, and then copy the HTML 
		<synph>object</synph> code into your DITA topic. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>An example of the DITA code to place a Flash animation in a topic is: 
		<codeblock status="changed">&lt;object id="anim_ej25" data="../images/ej25.swf"
	  type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="350" height="100"&gt; 
		&lt;param name="movie" value="../images/ej25.swf"/&gt; 
		&lt;param name="quality" value="high"/&gt; 
&lt;/object&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Attributes for the DITA 
		<synph>object</synph> element that are common to the HTML 
		<synph>object</synph> element are: 
	 <ul id="ul_DE88DD69FB574043A638277C6054B617"> 
		<li id="li_1D22535B72764B5F83019738C70857C9">archive 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_3D7182254FFD493782B836BF262F3680">classid 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_C62779C0787F4A0D84E20E9777C0BB59">codebase 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_AA7904F9AAE64DC592B32844588994B3">codetype 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_12DCA9A57D5247CCBB8B0ECD74068896">data 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_F2D269FA77DD4395B7362907CDDD7906">declare 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_E3C957C2B747440FB75A2D95104398B3">dir 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_37AE7677A9474A58A774C9DFB10A96A6">height 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_DBB8E75865A44C09BC0732D19A306BFC">name 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_0E0C2E0B89FA4662878B177157148729">standby 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_E1863B3BD90F464F8F02F3D6838CDD63">tabindex 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_69A1BDF2847F4D1884EA5AAD5ED8F632">type 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_60CBD6D34F20482CBE9F7D213EE822A7">usemap 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_65E9BFDC0845489DB28DA0330713CD5D">width 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_F5E803A70AE4492C90C9427DC384A623">xml:lang 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_5FA4F729C70F408DB51AB814C7646660"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Sowmya Kannan, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/12587"> 
		  <codeblock>&lt;object classid="clsid:D27CDB6E-AE6D-11cf-96B8-444553540000" 
      codebase="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/ 
      flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,0,0" 
      data="../images/arch_Architecture.jpg" 
      type="application/x-shockwave-flash" height="700" width="700" 
      id="arch_Architecture" &gt; 
      &lt;desc&gt;Message flow of web service request&lt;/desc&gt; 
      &lt;param name="movie" value="../multimedia/arch_WebServiceFlow.swf"/&gt; 
      &lt;/object&gt;</codeblock> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett"> 
		  <p>When you add a multimedia element to a DITA topic (using the
			 &lt;object&gt; element), you may find that the multimedia (eg, a QuickTime
			 movie) does not display correctly in Firefox browsers. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>The problem is caused by a limitation of the DITA-OT. The Toolkit
			 does not produce the correct cross-browser code to make embedded objects work
			 (except for Flash, which does seem to work). 
		  </p> 
		  <p>To fix the DITA OT, you will need to edit the 
			 <filepath>xsl/xslhtml/dita2htmlImpl.xsl</filepath> file to change the
			 XSLT that the DITA &lt;object&gt; element produces. Refer to this 
			 <xref href="http://www.alistapart.com/articles/flashembedcagematch/"
			  scope="external" format="html">A List Apart</xref> article for examples of what
			 DITA-OT should be producing, or just copy the Flash code already in
			 dita2htmlImpl.xsl and amend it for Quicktime. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
	 <section id="section_B5EB9C8FB9674F97AA1EE3D2DB20D269"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Test Area</title> 
		<object id="object1" data="../images/ace.swf"
		 type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="350" height="100"> 
		  <param name="movie" value="../images/ace.swf"/> 
		  <param name="quality" value="high"/> 
		</object> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
