<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D5125" status="new"> 
  <title>WAI compliance</title> 
  <shortdesc>So that output from your DITA source meets accessibility
	 responsibilities, you must include alternative text representations of all
	 images in DITA content. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>accessibility</indexterm><indexterm>WAI</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>alt</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>alt
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>image element</indexterm><indexterm>alternative
			 text</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Graphics in HTML and other online formats must have alternative text
		representations in order to comply with 
		<term>Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)</term> guidelines (and national
		laws, such as 
		<cite>US Section 508</cite>). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You must include alternative text representation values in the 
		<synph>alt</synph> attribute of all 
		<synph>image</synph> elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If the images are purely presentational in nature, they should be
		applied via CSS (in the 
		<term>presentation layer</term>). When an image is specified within a
		CSS, there is no capacity to specify alternative text; such images are
		considered to be simply decorative. This does not breach the WAI
		recommendations. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When graphics are used to denote notes, warnings, etc, it could be
		argued that the images contain meaning. Therefore, CSS should not be used to
		place such images; the HTML 
		<synph>img</synph> element, with a descriptive 
		<synph>alt</synph> attribute, should be used. These labels will be
		applied by the DITA publishing process; as a DITA author, you only need to
		apply the correct semantic mark-up, such as the 
		<synph>note</synph> element and its 
		<synph>type</synph> attribute. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_735ED3953713415685E271DA4570022C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>According to Derek Featherstone, an accessibility expert, alternative
		  text is not required if the image has no semantic value and communicates no
		  content. You may be able to overcome this by placing an 
		  <synph>imagemap</synph> element with an 
		  <synph>alt</synph> attribute, and then using CSS to provide a
		  background image for that imagemap. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
