<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_1F7A97DDF96E4CA2ADE638C3E0FA8AF1" status="new"
 xml:lang="en"> 
  <title>Avoiding special characters in file names</title> 
  <shortdesc>Special characters must not be used in file names. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>exemplar<indexterm>inline
				cross-reference</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>special
			 characters<indexterm>in file
				names</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>symbols<indexterm>in file
				names</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>URI</indexterm><indexterm>URL</indexterm><indexterm>IETF</indexterm><indexterm>file
			 naming<indexterm>special
				characters</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Using special characters in file names may cause some problems or errors
		in some authoring and publishing tools. Special characters in this context
		means symbols, typographical characters, punctuation characters, spaces,
		diacritical characters, and non-Latin characters. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">You must treat file names as though they are URIs, and
		follow the IETF syntax conventions for URI naming. 
	 </p> 
	 <p> Refer to 
		<xref href="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986" scope="external"
		 format="html">IETF Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax</xref> for
		the comprehensive URI guidelines. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_6B77DA45822B4AFAA014CE7C5BBF96D0"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Observations</title> 
		<p>This is an example of where an inline xref is appropriate, as it is
		  central to the topic message. The topic won't stand alone without the link;
		  therefore, it should not be conditional in any way (and thus shouldn't be
		  created as a reltable link). It may be able to be incorporated within a
		  related-links structure after the topic body, but semantically it is not a
		  related link, but an integral link. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
	 <section id="section_1D67A95988AF401AB84ED841A6751D88"
	  audience="contributor">
		<title>Rationale</title>
		<lq reftitle="Erlend Legenger, e-mail correspondence, 6 April 2011">I
		  totally agree with this, but I think that it can be said stronger - that in
		  fact all such file names in DITA 
		  <b>are</b> URIs, and thus 
		  <b>must</b> follow the standards for URI naming. I know that you can
		  use a space in a file name and get away with it in for example the DOT, but
		  that is a bug in the tools; the tools should validate that all "file names"
		  (such as in &lt;topicref href="file-name-which-is-actually-a-URI.dita"
		  type="task"&gt;) are legal URIs and thus fail the build when for example a
		  space is used in the file name. I am not 100% sure about this, but I think I
		  remember Eliot writing something about this on the DITA mailing list, but
		  cannot find the piece right now.
		</lq>
	 </section>
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
