<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D5118" xml:lang="en" status="new"> 
  <title>File extensions for DITA topics and ditamaps</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <filepath>.dita</filepath> file extension should be used for DITA topics,
	 and the 
	 <filepath>.ditamap</filepath> extension for ditamaps. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>file
			 naming</indexterm><indexterm>file
			 extensions</indexterm><indexterm>extensions<indexterm>file</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Most DITA authoring tools allow you to save topics with 
		<filepath>.dita</filepath> or 
		<filepath>.xml</filepath> file extensions. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Always use the 
		<filepath>.dita</filepath> file extension. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The reasons for using 
		<filepath>.dita</filepath> extensions include: 
	 <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_C0A50A862CDC4368BA2F7DEBFE486DDE"> 
		<li id="li_9BB687AE5C6240AE836DCB069CED074F">DITA authoring tools can be
		  associated specifically with DITA topics. A generic 
		  <filepath>.xml</filepath> file name doesn't identify the file
		  sufficiently - it could be a DITA file or an XML file of any other type. For
		  example, using the 
		  <filepath>.dita</filepath> extension would allow you to configure
		  Windows so that double-clicking the file opens it in your preferred DITA
		  editor. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_806FC0349D3B4363A955174B3985B970">It is easier for you to
		  recognise DITA files when browsing folders by the unique 
		  <filepath>.dita</filepath> file extension. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_9ECB8F7ED1BA4F14AC84E18BF0F47353">Within a DITA process, there
		  are XML file formats other than DITA topics and ditamaps. For example, there
		  are XML build files and ditaval files. Using 
		  <filepath>.dita</filepath> for topics helps differentiate topics from
		  other supporting files. 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Most authoring tools also allow you to save ditamap files with a 
		<filepath>.ditamap</filepath> extension or a 
		<filepath>.xml</filepath> extension. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Always use the 
		<filepath>.ditamap</filepath> extension for all ditamap files, including
		bookmaps. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
