<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D5113" xml:lang="en" status="new"> 
  <title>File and folder structure</title> 
  <shortdesc> When working with a file, you should create a folder structure
	 that makes it easy for authors to locate topics to edit or cross-reference. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>separation
			 of content and form</indexterm><indexterm>file
			 naming<indexterm>conventions</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>folder
			 structure</indexterm><indexterm>structure of files and
			 folders</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The ideal file structure for a DITA project is to have ditamaps at the
		root level of the documentation repository folder, and content topics stored in
		sub-folders down from the root. This structure ensures that 
		<term>topicref</term> links to content always move down the tree
		structure. As ditamaps are an informational superset of topics, having ditamaps
		in a 
		<term>superfolder</term> is a logical approach. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Images and other media resources should be stored in a separate folder
		(eg, 
		<filepath>/images</filepath>). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There are a number of file topologies that you can use, including: 
	 </p> 
	 <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_1829FF2C356D4B2A90820C961CD4F5A6"> 
		<li id="li_B2E301DBA3F84F09A884F3872F873EF2">by information type (eg,
		  concept, task, reference) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_FAB323009C9D4ABFA596A069F89AF500">by system component
		  documented (eg, engine, fuel system) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_43006271035E421296DDDA7E92A86641">by subject area (eg, Getting
		  Started, Working with Debits). 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 <p>Using a logical, context-free storage location for topics reduces the
		problems associated with having to later move files from one project folder to
		another project folder. It also makes the files easier to find. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Never base storage locations on where you want to
		output files to be generated, as this introduces context into file locations,
		and breaks the fundamental principle of separation of content from format from
		delivery. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Avoid using a 
		<term>flat</term> or 
		<term>shallow</term> file structure, with hundreds of topic files stored
		in one folder. This structure may result in slower file retrieval in DITA
		editors, where the 
		<uicontrol>File Open</uicontrol> dialog, for instance, needs to list all
		the files for selection. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
