<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D9048" xml:lang="en" status="new"> 
  <title>Page numbering in page layout documents</title> 
  <shortdesc>A single page number sequence through an entire page layout
	 document generated from DITA is often preferable to the traditional system of
	 different page number sequences for front matter and back matter. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>front
			 matter<indexterm>page numbering</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>back
			 matter<indexterm>page numbering</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>page
			 numbering</indexterm><indexterm>pagination</indexterm><indexterm>numbering<indexterm>page</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Traditional page numbering systems for printed documents have different
		numbering ranges for front matter, body content, and back matter. For example,
		the front matter (such as the Table of Contents, List of Figures, and
		Acknowledgements) might be numbered in lower case Roman numerals, with the page
		numbers restarting for the main body content in Arabic numerals. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The historical reasons for the different numbering sequences trace back
		to the production processes where the Table of Contents couldn't be created
		until the body of the document was paginated. Technology has since removed that
		limitation, but in general, the traditional numbering system has persisted. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">When creating PDF (or similar page layout) output
		documents where the intention is that the documents will primarily be read
		on-screen, you should process the document with a single page numbering
		sequence. This will make it easier for the document to be navigated, when the
		actual page numbers in the viewer match the page numbers displayed on the pages
		in the document. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_E8E65DC7FB6142B3A062B3F19E16836D"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>Bob Doyle summarised a discussion on the Yahoo! DITA Users Group about
		  page numbering as follows: 
		  <lq reftitle="Bob Doyle, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">Traditional books use
			 lower-case Roman numerals for introductory front material. This and folio-style
			 chapter numbering, page 2-35, are deprecated practices today. 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
		<p>If PDF files are numbered with arabic numerals starting from the title
		  page, they are much easier to view on-line, especially when the source has not
		  or is unable to add hyperlinks from page references in the ToC, LoF, LoT,
		  Index, and cross-references. At least you can then "Go to page" and be
		  confident of arriving at the correct destination, instead of having to apply an
		  offset to account for the 8 pp (or whatever) of roman-numbered frontmatter, or
		  going to the trouble to massage the PDF file so that both roman and arabic page
		  numbers can be used as "Go to page" targets. My question is "Why perpetuate a
		  hangover from 19th century book printing whose rationale has long disappeared?"
		  When books were set in hot metal, compositors typically started making up the
		  type of the body of the book into arabic-numbered pages so that the editor
		  could work off the page proofs to compile a table of Contents, list of Figures,
		  list of Tables, Index, and replace the page-number placeholders of
		  cross-references with the actual number. This also allowed the compositor to
		  work more efficiently by doing something while the Preface and Introduction
		  were being written by, respectively, a Famous Person and the Author. The
		  bastard title, title page, imprint (copyright, legals, credits, etc.) and ToC,
		  LoF, LoT, etc. were also typeset at this time. After all this frontmatter was
		  typeset, proofed, and revised, it too was made up into pages. Now there was a
		  bunch of pages that preceded page 1, so they were numbered in lower-case roman,
		  I, ii, iii, iv, etc. With ToC, etc, xrefs, Index entries, etc. now able to be
		  regenerated in minutes, there is no longer any need to number frontmatter in
		  roman and the body in arabic. In fact, with PDF being the medium now used to
		  submit camera art to printers, emailed to reviewers, etc., there are far more
		  reasons to number straight through in arabic from the first to the last page.
		  So don't bother. Here endeth the sermon. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
