<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D9383" xml:lang="en" status="new"> 
  <title>Elements for pre-publish review</title> 
  <shortdesc>The draft-comment element allows review and discussion information
	 to be embedded within topic mark-up. The more basic XML comment can also be
	 used for a similar purpose. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>draft-comment</indexterm><indexterm>required-cleanup</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>draft-comment
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>required-cleanup
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>author comments</indexterm><indexterm>review
			 comments</indexterm><indexterm>comments</indexterm><indexterm>XML
			 comment</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In a typical documentation process, incomplete information will often
		prevent the completion of a topic. To help track and manage the incomplete
		information, an author can add 
		<synph>draft-comment</synph> phrase elements. The 
		<synph>draft-comment</synph> element is also useful during the peer
		review and editing stages to leave remarks or suggestions for the author to
		consider or implement. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>draft-comment</synph> element has an 
		<synph>author</synph> attribute, used to record the name of the author of
		the comment. An example of the mark-up is: 
		<codeblock>&lt;p&gt;The MY11 XRW uses an AHA turbocharger.
  &lt;draft-comment author="Leo"&gt;
     Check if this changed after product meeting
  &lt;/draft-comment&gt;
&lt;p&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>draft-comment</synph> element should not be confused with the 
		<synph>required-cleanup</synph> element. The 
		<synph>required-cleanup</synph> element is intended only for identifying
		text in imported topics (typically, topics converted from XHTML to DITA) where
		the mark-up was not cleanly converted. In other words, 
		<synph>required-cleanup</synph> content needs a human author to manually
		correct the mark-up to preserve the original intent. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Any 
		<synph>draft-comment</synph> content will normally be removed during the
		publishing process. However, some authoring tools allow 
		<synph>draft-comment</synph> elements to be deliberately included in the
		output. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The draft-comment element is not allowed in some structures. An
		alternative is to use standard XML comment special element. Many authoring
		tools allow the addition of XML comments in the 
		<term>WYSIOO</term> editor. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The mark-up of an XML comment is shown in the example: 
		<codeblock>&lt;!-- Check that the last step is required for MY11 model --&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
