<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D4737" status="new"> 
  <title><ph
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_Specialised_InitCap"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 element and attribute naming convention</title> 
  <shortdesc><ph
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_Specialised_InitCap"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 elements and attributes should be named using 
	 <term>CamelCase</term> with the first character in lower case. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>naming
			 conventions</indexterm><indexterm>file naming</indexterm><indexterm
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/index_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Index Term?></indexterm><indexterm>element
			 naming</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>When the DITA schema is 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		to suit a particular documentation purpose, the person creating the 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		(the 
		<term
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/term_specialiser"><?xm-replace_text Term?></term>)
		must choose names for elements and attributes. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is technically valid for the 
		<term
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/term_specialiser"><?xm-replace_text Term?></term>
		to use all lower case (<synph>buttonname</synph>), lower case with hyphens
		(<synph>button-name</synph>), 
		<term>CamelCase</term> (<synph>ButtonName</synph>), lower then CamelCase
		(<synph>buttonName</synph>), or some other permutation. However, 
		<term>CamelCase</term> with a lower case first letter is the preferred
		convention. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">You should: 
	 <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_86F7706E47B345069F36D0DDC3C78E97"> 
		<li id="li_D25DDF69703E4423B8279F1A20EC3F5D">use an identifying prefix to
		  element names 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_171A6743BC334E49A9B18224ECC24C14">use element and attribute
		  names in lower then 
		  <term>CamelCase</term> 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In the previous example, the recommended name would therefore be 
		<synph>hwButtonName</synph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">You must not use names already used in the base DITA
		content model. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The use of a prefix will make 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		elements more 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_recognisable"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		and will avoid the chances of a name clash with base DITA names. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_60FC19D36C874DA69A9542578C5A2A26"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://markmail.org/message/eqec7m24yt2a67nx"
		 reftitle="Eric Sirois, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list">I wonder if
		  it make sense to add a prefix to the element names in your specialization, for
		  instance something like &lt;sidName&gt;, so that a) the element name is a bit
		  more descriptive in its use b) reduces the likelihood of colliding with another
		  element 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="DITAworks support documentation"
		 href="http://support.ditaworks.com/problems_and_solutions/errors-in-dita-specializations-modeling/">
		  
		  <p>Next problem that we find in specialized models is a problem related
			 to naming of newly defined topic types (infotypes) or elements. To be more
			 precise, naming of your new elements or infotypes becomes a problem when you
			 give them the same name as is already being used in basic DITA model 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Due to technical specifications of DITA specialization approach, it
			 is not possible to use the same names for new infotypes or elements that are
			 already defined in base DITA model or other models being used. This will result
			 in conflict during name resolution and can lead to unpredictable results on the
			 stage of DTD parsing and transformation. 
		  </p> 
		  <p><b>Solution:</b> 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Give unique names to your new infotypes and elements. It is a good
			 strategy to choose some kind of prefix for the names of your specialized
			 elements. In this way, you will most probably avoid naming conflicts with other
			 models and also distinguish standard DITA elements easily from specialized
			 elements later on when the content is being authored. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
