<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_72D3389B805549649605386052826D30" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Conditional titles</title> 
  <shortdesc>A 
	 <synph>title</synph> element in DITA does not have the normal metadata
	 attributes used for conditional publishing. However, it is possible to
	 carefully use conditions on elements nested within a title element. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>elements<indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>title
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm><indexterm>conditional publishing<index-see>conditional
				processing</index-see></indexterm><indexterm>metadata
			 attributes</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Filtering 
		<synph>title</synph> elements during publishing is risky, because 
		<synph>title</synph> is sometimes a required element. Topic titles are a
		good example; a topic must always have a 
		<synph>title</synph> element. Removing a topic's 
		<synph>title</synph> element during publishing would result in invalid
		DITA, and the processing would inevitably fail. For this reason, the title
		element doesn't have 
		<synph>audience</synph>, 
		<synph>platform</synph>, 
		<synph>product</synph> and 
		<synph>otherprops</synph> attributes. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If it is necessary to apply conditions to parts of a title, you can mark
		up the 
		<synph>title</synph> element text with phrase (<synph>ph</synph>)
		elements, and apply condition attributes to that element. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_462FE45722034DB28A1C1C1625E03C82"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/17379"
		 reftitle="Eliot Kimber, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">Use &lt;ph&gt; within title to
		  have conditional title content. All topics *must* have a title, therefore
		  &lt;title&gt; is not conditional. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
