<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_D94B6F1140A4479BA5EF7B33C6BAC5E2" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Crafting paragraphs</title> 
  <shortdesc>A paragraph should contain one unit of thought or action, or main
	 point, and should be typically three to eight sentences in length. All of the
	 sentences in a paragraph should relate to its main point. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>paragraphs</indexterm><indexterm>writing<indexterm>paragraphs</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A paragraph should start with a 
		<term>topic sentence</term>. A topic sentence establishes the paragraph's
		main idea, and therefore discloses the subject of the paragraph to the reader.
		This structure help scanning readers move quickly through a text. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The sentences that follow should support the topic sentence by
		elaborating on the main point. Paragraphs should be three to eight sentences in
		length. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>To avoid closing off opportunities for re-using paragraphs in different
		contexts, do not use cohesive or transitional devices at the end of a paragraph
		that tie it to the next paragraph. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_C69A46B004E34958B52364D0F562705F"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Peters (2004:406)">For the reader, paragraphs should
		  correlate with units of thought or action in the writing. They should provide
		  digestible blocks of information or narrative, by which the reader can
		  cumulatively absorb the whole. Ideally (at least in informative and
		  argumentative writing) the paragraph begins with a topic sentence, which
		  signals in general terms whatever it will focus on. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Peters (2004:407)">Writing guides sometimes advocate
		  including a cohesive or transitional device at the end of each paragraph, as
		  well as at the beginning of the next. This becomes very tedious if done over
		  every paragraph break – and is not necessary if there’s adequate cohesion at
		  the start of new paragraphs with what has gone before. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Dorothy Turner, HyperGrammar, uOttawa"
		href="http://www.writingcentre.uottawa.ca/hypergrammar/parunif.html">A 
		  <xref
		  href="http://www.uottawa.ca/academic/arts/writcent/hypergrammar/paragrph.html#paragraphs"
		  scope="external" type="html"> paragraph</xref> is unified when every 
		  <xref
		  href="http://www.uottawa.ca/academic/arts/writcent/hypergrammar/subjpred.html#sentence"
		  scope="external" type="html"> sentence</xref> develops the point made in the 
		  <xref
		  href="http://www.uottawa.ca/academic/arts/writcent/hypergrammar/partopic.html#topic%20sentence"
		  scope="external" type="html"> topic sentence</xref>. It must have a single
		  focus and it must contain no irrelevant facts. Every sentence must contribute
		  to the paragraph by explaining, exemplifying, or expanding the topic sentence.
		  In order to determine whether a paragraph is well developed or not, ask
		  yourself: "What main point am I trying to convey here?" (topic sentence) and
		  then "Does every sentence clearly relate to this idea?" 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
