<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9046" status="new"> 
  <title>Stem sentences, glue text, and other transitional information</title> 
  <shortdesc>Transitional information, such as stem sentences, is largely
	 redundant in DITA's minimalist, topic-based, semantic mark-up architecture. The
	 role of transitional information in 
	 <ph
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_contextualising"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 the content has been eliminated through the use of smaller chunk sizes,
	 meaningful titles, information typing, structure, and demarcation labels
	 automatically-generated in the output. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>stub
			 content</indexterm><indexterm>stem sentences</indexterm><indexterm>glue
			 text</indexterm><indexterm>transitional
			 information</indexterm><indexterm>cohesion</indexterm><indexterm>minimalism</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Transitional information, or 
		<term>glue text</term>, is text used to inform readers of what has come
		before and what will follow later. In other words, it leads the reader from one
		idea to the next idea. When working in a modular documentation system, the
		author cannot assume what will come before or after, because information chunks
		can be assembled in different sequences and combinations to form different
		publications. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Some common forms of transitional information are found in: 
	 <ul id="ul_11ED98AD541F4E8C90520CB03A5C8978"> 
		<li id="li_9E66A363F8D64C26B383123A23C820A9"><term>stub content</term>,
		  such as 
		  <q>In this chapter...</q> 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_FE1B25DA92F34E2AAF35E7CE3923A1AF"><term>stem sentences</term>,
		  such as 
		  <q>To change the wheel:</q> 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_F20D237426D24E8FAF0E2FC038DC1D80"><term>transitional
			 phrases</term> , such as 
		  <q>Before starting, make sure you have...</q> 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_A227ADE7CFFD46ECA7A08E6152DC088D">cross-references, such as 
		  <q>For more information, see...</q> 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_518B7DAA808D4F958A60A821C605B7CD">locational markers, such as 
		  <q>Next, we will describe...</q> and 
		  <q>Having completed the previous...</q> 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In DITA, devices other than transitional text are used to maintain
		cohesion and to manage transition. 
	 <ul id="ul_7E2B15EA002540F0AC906D47C60B7359"> 
		<li id="li_1072ECFB25B04F7D86621BDE6C05B24B">Smaller information chunks,
		  labelled with meaningful titles, reduce the need for stem sentences,
		  particularly in task topics. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_12382A6B54EA4DE688D9582BCB4FBFB0">Information typing separates
		  content that may otherwise have been bundled together into distinct topics,
		  thus breaking up generalist topics into, for example, concept, task and
		  reference topics. This separation reduces the need for transitional text within
		  topics. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_3F2F7576E64E4ED0B1AC6F9E6FAFE274">Using a structure where much
		  of the context of a document is defined in the ditamap, rather than the topic,
		  and the careful use of well-crafted short descriptions, allows stub content and
		  cross-reference information to be automatically generated during the publishing
		  process. For example, a 
		  <synph>prereq</synph> semantic element in a topic can be differentiated
		  from other content by the application of labels or icons during the publishing
		  process, and relationship tables can be used to form the links to related
		  topics in the output. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_0A557EE652344C8E916B52A49E2C5760">Adopting a minimalist
		  approach to writing can also serve to eliminate superfluous transitional
		  information. 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">In summary, avoid using transitional text, and rely on
		structure, meaningful titles and short descriptions, the separation of document
		context into the ditamap, and the publishing process, to achieve coherence,
		cohesion and transition. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://dita.xml.org/wiki/myths-about-technical-writing">Glue
		  text is defined as transitional information intended to inform readers of what
		  has come before or comes after a particular procedure, description, or
		  explanation. In topic-oriented authoring, which forms the basis for the DITA
		  Model, transitional text has become problematic. See Do we really need all that
		  glue? 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Robert Horn, Structured Writing as a Paradigm">There is no
		  "transitional" information in the information block, but principles for writing
		  prose encourage or require it. The need for coherence, cohesion, and transition
		  is handled in a completely different manner in structured writing. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
