<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9377" status="new"> 
  <title>Line breaks in titles</title> 
  <shortdesc>There is no line break element or equivalent in DITA. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>line
			 breaks</indexterm><indexterm>separation of content and
			 form</indexterm><indexterm>workarounds</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Line breaks are formatting constructs, so in general, DITA mark-up
		doesn't provide for them. However, it's not quite so clear cut. Despite working
		to the ideal that content should be separated from form, DITA does provide for
		a good deal of form mark-up. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Table column widths can be specified in DITA, even though that's form.
		Image sizes can be specified in DITA, and that too is form. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is possible to use these loopholes in the separation of content and
		form to make possible things such as line breaks in titles. For example, a
		workaround is to place a one pixel by one pixel image within the title, and set
		the image element's placement attribute to break. This will cause, in most
		outputs, the title to be displayed with text before the image displayed on a
		different line to text following. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">You must avoid the temptation to use such workarounds
		in an attempt to introduce form into DITA content. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
