<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9180" status="new"> 
  <title>Nested quotations</title> 
  <shortdesc>Nested quotations are limited in DITA to quoted phrases within
	 quoted blocks. Although it is possible to create workarounds to achieve nested
	 block quotations, this approach should not be used as the result is
	 semantically incorrect mark-up. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>nested
			 quotations</indexterm><indexterm>quotation
			 marks</indexterm><indexterm>quotations</indexterm><indexterm>lq
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>q element</indexterm><indexterm>inverted
			 commas</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>lq</indexterm><indexterm>q</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Some complex quotations may include a quoted phrase within a quoted
		block, or less commonly, a quoted block within another quoted block. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In the first instance, a 
		<synph>q</synph> element would be used within the 
		<synph>lq</synph> block, and the processor would determine how quotation
		marks might appear in the output (typically, single quotes within double
		quotes). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>An 
		<synph>lq</synph> element can contain multiple paragraph
		(<synph>p</synph>) and other block elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The DITA standard does not permit an 
		<synph>lq</synph> to nest directly inside another 
		<synph>lq</synph> element, but it does permit a nested 
		<synph>lq</synph> provided it is contained within a block element such as
		a 
		<synph>fig</synph>. However, do not use this 
		<q>loophole</q> to circumvent the disallowance of nested 
		<synph>lq</synph> elements unless the use of the containing element is
		semantically correct. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In other words, the following: 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock>&lt;p&gt;May read the description of John's speech at Sanjay's wedding.&lt;/p&gt; 
 &lt;lq&gt;He rose from his seat and stood to his full height.
  &lt;fig&gt;
   &lt;lq&gt;I have known the groom for most of his life... I propose a toast to the groom.&lt;/lq&gt; 
  &lt;/fig&gt; 
  When he finished talking, he spilled his wine.
 &lt;/lq&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;</codeblock> 
	 <p>might be valid DITA, but it is not semantically correct DITA, because
		the contents of 
		<synph>fig</synph> is not a figure. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Try to find a way of restructuring the text so that
		nested long quotations are not required. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_392CB53A2A04457BB09F14AC8DBA3CA9"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Eliot Kimber, Yahoo! DITA Users Group">It is, ultimately,
		  sufficient for the *prose* of the DITA spec to say "structures that allow
		  nesting of &lt;lq&gt; within &lt;lq&gt; without an intervening block context
		  establishing element (e.g., lists, figures, long quotes, or tables) is not
		  allowed". The fact that you can't express this constraint declaratively in DTD
		  or XSD syntax (but you almost could in SGML DTD syntax and might be able to in
		  RNG and definitely can using Schematron) is really irrelevant--the DTDs are at
		  most a convenience, but we cannot depend on them as the primary definition of
		  what is or isn't allowed (even though that is how DITA has been largely defined
		  to date). 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
