<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9122" status="new"> 
  <title>Quotation marks</title> 
  <shortdesc>Quotation marks should not be included in DITA content. The marks
	 should be added, if required, during the publishing process. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>quotation
			 marks</indexterm><indexterm>quotations</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>lq</indexterm><indexterm>q</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>q
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>lq element</indexterm><indexterm>inverted
			 commas</indexterm><indexterm>punctuation</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Quotation marks are formatting constructs. They are arguably not
		punctuation, but highlighting devices like bold and italics. (In fact, in some
		cases, bold or italic is used in place of quotation marks.) However, they do
		contribute to the communication of meaning, in that they often indicate
		semantics. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Most commonly, quotation marks indicate that the encapsulated text is a
		literal quotation. DITA has 
		<synph>q</synph> and 
		<synph>lq</synph> elements (quotation and long quotation, respectively)
		which should be used to mark up the semantic meaning of 
		<q>quotation</q>. When the content is processed into a reading format,
		the rendering process may highlight the quoted text with italics, single
		quotation marks, double quotation marks, or any other available highlighting
		device. Or it may leave the quoted text unadorned. Your role as an author is
		simply to semantically identify quotations. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Other common uses of quotation marks are for highlighting purposes only,
		or for purposes more difficult to semantically identify. For example, quotation
		marks may be used to highlight the use of a new term (<b>this is what is known
		  as "WYSIOO"</b>), to indicate a foreign term (<b>they preferred the "status
		  quo"</b>) to indicate irony (<b>his autobiography is a great "novel"</b>), to
		cite a newspaper or reference (<b>it was in "The Age"</b>) or to reference
		popular culture (<b>that sausage was "noice"</b>). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If the DITA information type you are using does not provide a semantic
		element, you should try to re-phrase the text so that it reads unambiguously
		without the quotation marks. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In the 
		<cite>Cambridge Guide to Australian English Usage</cite>, author Pam
		Peters points out that "ideally, the intended emphasis or meaning is conveyed
		by the choice of words, appropriately arranged". 
		<cite product="academic_only">(Peters, p670)</cite> For example,
		prefixing the word 
		<q>so-called</q> may help convey the meaning of irony or emphasis. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Malcolm Parkes, author of 
		<cite>Pause and Effect: An Introduction to the History of Punctuation in
		  the West</cite>, wrote of the quotation mark: 
	 </p> 
	 <lq reftitle="Parkes 1993">Its primary function is to resolve structural
		uncertainties in a text, and to signal nuances of semantic significance which
		might otherwise not be conveyed at all, or would at best be much more difficult
		for a reader to figure out. 
	 </lq> 
	 <p>According to Parkes, 
		<q>quotation marks were gradually accepted during the first half of the
		  eighteenth century</q>, which certainly means that Shakespeare managed without
		them at all! 
	 </p> 
	 <p> 
		<draft-comment>Maybe this belongs in Syntax and Mark-up? Hard to say, but
		  it is probably more related to punctuation. 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_0C51FE366C6B4E398F5F2E1FE7546BB7"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>The W3C HTML 5 standard directs that quotation marks (for 
		  <synph>q</synph> elements) must 
		  <b>not</b> be added by the author; they must instead be added by
		  browsers (or other user agents) through devices such as CSS. Interestingly, by
		  contrast, the XHTML standard makes no such ruling. 
		</p> 
		<lq reftitle="Robert Anderson, DITA TC List, 4 Mar 2009">The DITA
		  specification should recommend that authors do not add quote punctuation on
		  their own, and that rendering tools or stylesheets should add appropriate
		  styling (such as locale-specific quotation marks). 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
