<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D3753" status="new"> 
  <title>Stem sentences in task topics</title> 
  <shortdesc>Stem sentences cannot be used to introduce steps in a task topic.
	 The topic title provides sufficient context for the user to understand the
	 purpose of the procedure. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm>stem
			 sentences</indexterm><indexterm>task
			 topic</indexterm><indexterm>context</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>context</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The DITA 
		<term>task</term> information task doesn't have a dedicated element for a
		stem sentence to introduce the steps. The assumption that can be drawn is that
		a stem sentence (eg, 
		<q>To change the wheel, proceed as follows</q>) is not required. A
		descriptive topic title will obviate the need for a stem sentence, particularly
		when used in conjunction with a carefully crafted short description. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Do not break the semantics of your content by trying
		to force a stem sentence into a structure where it is not clearly permitted.
		For example, do not include a stem sentence as the last paragraph in the 
		<synph>context</synph> element, using the logic that it will be rendered
		immediately before the step block. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The DITA Technical Committee did not forget to include a stem sentence
		element. It was deliberately not included, after careful consideration and
		consensus amongst the committee members. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://dita.xml.org/wiki/myths-about-technical-writing"
		reftitle="DITA.xml Wiki: Myths about Technical Writing">Stem sentences in
		  technical communication have long been considered a standard practice to
		  introduce new content, especially steps in a task. The task stem sentence,
		  generally consisting of a partial sentence such as "To start the machine:" ,
		  followed by "1. Plug it in.", "2. Turn it on.," etc., is not supported by any
		  explicit DITA element in the DITA Task information type. See How to do it with
		  DITA (http://dita.xml.org/wiki/stem-sentences). 
		</lq> 
		<p>Ted Kuster, of CollabNet Inc, found that to be the case. He dispensed
		  with stem sentences altogether, going straight from the shortdesc into the
		  steps. 
		  <lq reftitle="Ted Kuster, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		  href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/8219">I find
			 that if you are very careful to draft the shortdesc right, this makes for a
			 brisker, more efficient flow. But it does take some getting used to, from the
			 authoring side. 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
