<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D3768" status="new"> 
  <title>Titles and headings</title> 
  <shortdesc>Titles are used in a number of mark-up structures in DITA. Titles
	 are a mix of content and metadata. The mark-up in titles should be kept as
	 simple as possible, and workarounds to achieve specific formatting outcomes
	 should not be used. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>titles</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>headings</indexterm><indexterm>phrase
			 mark-up in titles</indexterm><indexterm>title
			 element</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>A title is not the same as a heading. A title is usually considered part
		of the content (and is typically rendered in the output as a heading), but it
		also has a role as a metadata container. For example, the title might be used
		as the basis for link text, outside the context of its topic. In that context,
		mark-up such as a footnote (<synph>fn</synph>) or cross-reference
		(<synph>xref</synph>) wouldn't make any sense. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A number of mark-up structures in DITA have titles, including: 
	 <ul id="ul_398232B9D52B422793282606149D02D3"> 
		<li id="li_4BACFEFD9E604B639B6177B4816D7E33">map 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_7559B08DFEA245F0BECB026237A7B48E">topic 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_1B8B31C0F1C7425C84E3904EA2283233">table 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_2C59FBD6E38F417A8C7D243A8B50A0A9">data 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_3496C4827E0847D78A64CD20C4C730BE">link list 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_6CCD31A27B6545B296507A1A77F9946F">syntax diagram 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_49D70D05CB2C45E08B3704663EA9DDF6">figure 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_8670D909992E44BF87D77393D21BB7F5">section 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_549425340ABA40E7BF22FE47DBDB50A7">example 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Avoid using phrase-level mark-up in titles,
		particularly when the motivation is to achieve a presentational outcome. For
		example, do not use footnote (<synph>fn</synph>) elements in titles, as the
		presentational outcome when a title is displayed in a pop-up window is likely
		to be unpredictable. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">If a 
		<synph>title</synph> element does not permit a particular type of
		phrase-level element, do not devise workarounds to force such elements in
		place. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, 
		<synph>title</synph> does not permit the 
		<synph>cite</synph> element, but does permit the general phrase
		(<synph>ph</synph>) element. That phrase element can itself contain 
		<synph>cite</synph>. So while the code 
		<codeph>&lt;title&gt;Such is Life &lt;ph&gt;&lt;cite&gt;Ned
		  Kelly&lt;/cite&gt;&lt;/ph&gt;&lt;/title&gt;</codeph> is technically correct, it
		nonetheless constitutes a workaround, and should not be used. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_1A8C74461E014C6594D496BFCCF539C5"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>A discussion on the DITA Users list centred around why footnote
		  &lt;fn&gt; elements cannot be included within a title &lt;title&gt; element.
		  One of the examples cited for why such a footnote might be needed was for a
		  title of "On the differences between apples and oranges [This research was made
		  possible with the gracious help of ...]". 
		</p> 
		<p>DITA aims to separate content from form, and it is interesting that a
		  footnote can be regarded as a formatting construct. Trying to include a
		  footnote in a title might be an attempt to dictate presentation within the
		  content. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
