<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D4705" status="new"> 
  <title>Transitional information in semantic blocks</title> 
  <shortdesc>Headings, stem sentences and transitional text phrases should not
	 be used as a way of introducing semantic text blocks such as pre-requisites.
	 The publishing process is capable of systematically adding the necessary
	 transitional information, leading to consistency and simplicity. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>postreq
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>prereq
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>prereq</indexterm><indexterm>postreq</indexterm><indexterm>context</indexterm><indexterm>result</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>context
			 element</indexterm><indexterm
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/index_labelling"><?xm-replace_text Index Term?></indexterm><indexterm>result
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>transitional
			 information</indexterm><indexterm>stem sentences</indexterm><indexterm>glue
			 text</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p importance="high">Transitional text in elements such as pre-requisites
		(<synph>prereq</synph>), context statements (<synph>context</synph>), results
		(<synph>result</synph>), and post-requisites (<synph>postreq</synph>) should be
		omitted. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There are a number of ways in which transitional text is incorrectly
		included in semantic blocks, such as in the following examples: 
	 <ul id="ul_F2A959CB28A34B84A0860816EAD31BF8"> 
		<li id="li_8805DA2BCBDC43078875E7CBB20F6C4C"><q>In this topic...</q>
		  (within 
		  <synph>shortdesc</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_FD5527249F7C4EA7A00FA90CA1AFB350"><q>The system must meet the
			 following conditions before starting the procedure...</q> (within 
		  <synph><sep>context</sep></synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_1A9C424AE5334E38876039361F97DF7E"><q>Before entering the PIN
			 you must complete some important checks...</q> (within 
		  <synph>prereq</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_2C238D3D12554167B647DC0E198BE2AB"><q>After completing the
			 procedure you will find...</q> (within 
		  <synph>postreq</synph>) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_05B0E213BDE643449810CFEF0D792757"><q>In this procedure, the
			 steps for...</q> (within 
		  <synph>context</synph>) 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In DITA, alternative devices and a minimalist approach are used in place
		of transitional text. These devices include a publishing process that can
		systematically apply labels to parts of the output. For example, the words 
		<q>Before you begin</q> and a graphical icon can be rendered in the
		output immediately before every pre-requisite 
		<synph>prereq</synph> element text. Such systematic and consistent
		labelling allows semantic elements to be easily identified by the reader. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">If your publishing process treats semantic elements
		such as 
		<synph>postreq</synph> in the same way as normal paragraph
		(<synph>p</synph>) elements, you should change your publishing process to
		generate transitional information rather than change your writing approach to
		introduce redundant transitional information in your content. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Do not include labels, such as 
		<q>Note</q>, within the text of admonishment elements. The appropriate
		label or formatting will be applied when the paragraph is rendered during
		publishing. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_4BFAB814530B47FE99F03A2BA7F9041D"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Swinburne University of Technology - Structured Authoring class notes">
		  
		  <p>Q. The &lt;task&gt; topic has 
			 <synph>prereq</synph> (pre-requisite) and &lt;result&gt; elements.
			 When typing content into, for example, a 
			 <synph>prereq</synph> element, should I include the label
			 "Prerequisite: " at the start? 
		  </p> 
		  <p>A. The label is part of the format or presentation; it is not part
			 of the content. Therefore, it should definitely 
			 <b>not</b> be included. The processing can add those labels, or other
			 formatting artifacts, if required. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<p>On the 
		  <xref href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/"
			scope="external" format="html">Yahoo! DITA Users Group list</xref>, Kristen
		  James Eberlein provided three examples of how the presentation of
		  pre-requisites can affect their construction. She provided examples of
		  pre-requisites used with a heading, a stem sentence, and phrasing withing the
		  paragraph. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
	 <example id="section_21B8F5BDCF8D4D97938715EC3A6685AE"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Using a heading</title> 
		<p>Product: WebSphere Application Server 
		</p> 
		<p>URL: http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/wasinfo/v6r0/topic/
		  com.ibm.websphere.base.doc/info/aes/ae/tins_runSilent.html 
		</p> 
		<p> 
		  <lq> 
			 <p><b>Before you begin</b> 
			 </p> 
			 <p>[body of &lt;prereq&gt; element here -- snipped because it is
				wordy and not very helpful] 
			 </p> 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
	 </example> 
	 <example id="section_22CC84E7470541F68A2F7CBC95A114CA"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Using a stem sentence</title> 
		<p>Product: SAN Volume Controller 
		</p> 
		<p>URL: http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/svcic/v3r1m0/topic/
		  com.ibm.storage.svc.console.doc/svc_instsuprailups5115_228zf5.html 
		</p> 
		<p> 
		  <lq> 
			 <p>Complete the following prerequisites before installing the support
				rails: 
			 </p> 
			 <p>Use the user's hardware location chart to determine where in the
				rack that the 2145-1U uninterruptible power supply is to be installed. 
			 </p> 
			 <p>At the back of the rack, observe the Electronic Industries
				Alliance (EIA) positions and determine where you are going to install the
				2145-1U uninterruptible power supply. Because of its weight, position the
				2145-1U uninterruptible power supply where it is easy to handle in one of the
				lower positions in the rack. 
			 </p> 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
	 </example> 
	 <example id="section_9AB69717E2E64C4C8679CA030AA43D1B"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Using a phrase in the text</title> 
		<p>Product: IBM Director 5.10 
		</p> 
		<p>URL: http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/
		  eserver/v1r2/topic/diricinfo_5.20/fqm0_t_installing_ibm_director_server_on_i5os_cd.html
		  
		</p> 
		<p> 
		  <lq>Before you install IBM Director Server, make sure that you have
			 completed planning and preparing for the installation, and that the server
			 meets the *hardware requirements* to install IBM Director. You also must meet
			 the prerequisites included in *Preparing to install IBM Director on IBM i
			 (formerly i5/OS)*. 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
	 </example> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
