<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D4771" status="new"> 
  <title>Different languages</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>xml:lang</synph> attribute stores the human language of the content,
	 and can be applied to any DITA element. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>human
			 languages</indexterm><indexterm
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/index_localisation"><?xm-replace_text Index Term?></indexterm><indexterm>translation</indexterm><indexterm>languages<indexterm>content
				in
				different</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>dialects</indexterm><indexterm>varieties</indexterm><indexterm>English<indexterm>varieties
				of</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>It is not unusual to have content in more than one language in the same
		deliverable document, or even in the same topic. For example, a topic in German
		documenting a software application with a user interface in English might need
		to explain English language error messages. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Every DITA element, including 
		<synph>map</synph> elements, topic elements, block elements and phrase
		elements, has an 
		<synph>xml:lang</synph> attribute which stores the ISO 639 code of the
		human language in which the content is written. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If one topic has a mix of varieties or dialects of the same language,
		such as some US English and some UK English, the varieties can be managed
		through the 
		<synph>xml:lang</synph> attribute. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if the bulk of a concept topic's content was in US English,
		but one phrase was in UK English, the concept element's 
	 <option>xml:lang</option> attribute should be set to 
	 <option>en-US</option>, and the phrase marked up with 
	 <synph>ph</synph> or text with the 
	 <synph>xml:lang</synph> attribute set to 
	 <option>en-UK</option>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If you need to deliver entire documents in different varieties or
		dialects of the same language, where there are significant spelling,
		punctuation and grammatical differences, you should treat the varieties as
		separate languages and manage the task as a 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_localisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		project. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>Q. How can I use DITA to provide a US English and a UK English version
		  of the same content? 
		</p> 
		<p>A. Treat the variety of English as another language. The xml:lang
		  attribute (en-us or en-gb) can be used to track and manage any
		  "generated-at-publishing-time" text, such as "Related Concepts". 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
