<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_61BC51D8A66442A59443A02BD9F92AAF" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Crafting meaningful topic titles</title> 
  <shortdesc>Writing accurate, concise and consistent topic titles is an
	 important challenge for DITA authors. Guidelines for crafting title text make
	 this task a little easier. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/index_labelling"><?xm-replace_text Index Term?></indexterm><indexterm>title
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>topic<indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>concept
			 topic<indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>task
			 topic<indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>reference
			 topic<indexterm>title</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In topic-based authoring, chunks of information have a greater need to
		be self-supporting, or standalone. This means that topics should be able to be
		read on their own, without reliance on what comes before or after. A topic with
		a heading of 
		<q>Introduction</q> cannot be standalone, because it doesn't adequately
		describe what the topic is about. 
		<q>Introducing the 
		  <ph
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  Liberty</q> is a better label. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The greater importance of titles in semantic, structured authoring
		environments means that 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_labelling"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		(and other forms of 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_cataloguing"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>)
		needs to be thorough, and time and skill must be devoted to crafting meaningful
		titles. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In addition to helping the reader understand what a topic is about,
		titles should also help the reader identify what kind of topic it is. From the
		topic title, readers should know whether the topic will help them understand
		something, help them do something, or provide supporting information. This can
		be done by using different phrasing for titles for topics of different
		information types. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Titles must be meaningful, easy to read, accurate,
		concise and consistent. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When composing titles, try constructing them as sentence fragments. A
		useful technique is to re-write the title after the content of the topic and
		the short description are complete. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Some more specific guidelines are: 
	 <ul id="ul_7F9EAEAD18B44B048B7743B0E7E2F7BB"> 
		<li id="li_AA1A08B8E8BC4A66986652BB15DD01C2">Do not use definite (eg, 
		  <q>the</q>) and indefinite (eg, 
		  <q>an</q>) articles (<q>Engine</q>, not 
		  <q>The engine</q>). 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_D6EB2A83CB75465596735FE6EBFBF756">Use the singular, not plural
		  (<q>Engine</q>, not 
		  <q>Engines</q>). 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_C4548C6188BF465D90620BC5DB8ADFDD">Do not start titles with 
		  <ph
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_generalised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  phrases (<q>Security</q> and 
		  <q>Maintenance</q>, not 
		  <q>About security</q> and 
		  <q>Introduction to maintenance</q>). 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_0622B18A6B8746B88DFD53A634E8A36F">Do not use the ampersand
		  character (<q>Controls and switches</q>, not 
		  <q>Controls &amp; switches</q>). 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_A9E2216FEA594B26B7B0DD6A3C5420D0">Prefer the present
		  participle (<term>-ing</term> form) verb and the imperative to the infinitive
		  (<q>Starting the engine</q> or 
		  <q>Start the engine</q>, not 
		  <q>To Start the Engine</q>). 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_78C7110F8F7249F4ADA3A9C38FB17C3E">Do not attempt to use line
		  breaks. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_F740731E29BD48A1B641F3B1886FE188">Use plain language. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_EB5B840DF44F43319DF7B4728C905604">Aim to use no more than
		  eight words. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_09D5D5B204814180967B3B52FEA2B765">Use sentence case. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_B2A3415C684D4C5C94B91C61EB89110F">Use qualitative words to
		  make the title more specific (<q>reducing report length</q>, not 
		  <q>report length</q>, or 
		  <q>advantages of forced induction engines</q>, not 
		  <q>forced induction</q>). 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_0C80A1B9E9544CD9848530A449196438">Ensure that the titles can
		  be understood out of context. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_81B1F441A48B4EF2A51DA9C53F4A504A">Use consistent syntax and
		  parallel construction. 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>To help the reader identify the information type by the title, use the
		following guidelines. 
		<simpletable id="simpletable_7850D67F336647E6A912FCDFD3003184"> 
		  <sthead><stentry>Information
				Type</stentry><stentry>Syntax</stentry><stentry>Examples</stentry> 
		  </sthead> 
		  <strow><stentry>Concept</stentry><stentry>Start with a noun or
				adjective</stentry><stentry><q>Client window</q>, 
				<q><ph
				  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
				  Liberty features</q>, 
				<q>Important Considerations for Engine Modifications</q></stentry> 
		  </strow> 
		  <strow><stentry>Task</stentry><stentry>Start with a gerund or present
				participle, and use singular nouns</stentry><stentry><q>Resetting the
				  odometer</q>, 
				<q>Printing the audit report</q></stentry> 
		  </strow> 
		  <strow><stentry>Reference</stentry><stentry>Start with a noun or
				adjective, and include the reference construct (eg, 
				<q>table</q>, 
				<q>list</q>, etc)</stentry><stentry><q>Specification table</q>, 
				<q>Product code list</q></stentry> 
		  </strow> 
		</simpletable> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>Jakob Nielsen conducted some analysis into what constitutes good link
		  text design. As DITA topic titles are used for automatically-generated links,
		  many of Nielsen's recommendations could be applied to devising titles. 
		  <lq reftitle="Jakob Nielsen's AlertBox"
			href="http://www.useit.com/alertbox/nanocontent.html"> 
			 <p>The two winning links also showcase principles for effective Web
				content. Both links: 
			 </p> 
			 <ul id="ul_65D5E5CB670C4F5AA7C099820026486F"> 
				<li id="li_7F6C30C3451D4919BD7D9C3325F994C9"> Use plain language 
				</li> 
				<li id="li_54C393A6FA8D41EA8DBF1AEC12852E30">Use specific
				  terminology 
				</li> 
				<li id="li_CEC33A7C076D404D85E46110FB655B2E">Follow conventions for
				  naming common features 
				</li> 
				<li id="li_AB04CAC9DB2B4021890BF607451C2C82">Front-load user- and
				  action-oriented terms 
				</li> 
			 </ul> 
			 <p>These links are infected by 3 nasties that cause bad content
				usability: 
			 <ul id="ul_9DBCF438960846CF833BE482AF282165"> 
				<li id="li_AC7D42B6FC9049ED80A0A5DA266107F0"> Bland, generic words 
				</li> 
				<li id="li_D4415DE252464882A74B8E4BF056D8E0">Made-up words or terms
				  
				</li> 
				<li id="li_C4D1E9AEDBC64DEFBCD11A07B2E075D6">Starting with
				  blah-blah and deferring the information-carrying text to the end 
				</li> 
			 </ul> 
		</p> 
		</lq> 
		</p> 
		<p>Gerry McGovern, commenting on Nielsen's study, summarised some useful
		  suggestions for titles. 
		  <lq>Links and headings are very similar in their function. They act as
			 signposts, as promises. Do not mislead or over-promise. One of the most common
			 mistakes in link writing is that the link does not deliver on the promise. The
			 links says "buy stamps here" or "download now", and four clicks later you're
			 still not able to download. Now means now, not five clicks, two forms and four
			 minutes later. Links and headings should be no more than 8 words. We did a
			 study recently of 500 web news headings. Over 70 percent of them were 8 words
			 or less. Avoid putting links in sentences because this makes it harder to read
			 the sentence, and harder to understand what the purpose of the link is. Instead
			 put links on separate lines after the content. Avoid PR, advertising and
			 marketing gibberish at all costs. Please, please never, ever write anything
			 like "solving tomorrow's problems today" or "excite your senses" or "the human
			 element is providing comfort every day." Don't be smart, clever, obscure,
			 vague. Be clear, compelling, concise, and always focus on what your customers
			 really care about. And remember, what your customers really care about is very
			 often not what you really care about. 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
		<lq reftitle="Tracey et al, 1965"> 
		  <p>HOW TO WRITE TOPIC HEADINGS 
		  </p> 
		  <p>It is important to recognize that the topic title must characterize
			 and introduce the thematic content, not merely categorize (label) the theme
			 body. Topic titles are more likely to be representative and topically faithful
			 if they are (1) constructed as sentence fragments, and (2) rewritten after
			 composition of the theme. Title-writing guidelines are summarized here. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>... 
		  </p> 
		  <p>The author, reviewer and reader all need to know "what about?" the
			 Topic Heading: 
		  </p> 
		  <ul id="ul_770C824AEB0F4F86A1DF03887FEB7A3E"> 
			 <li id="li_77AFDE5E15E846C6A4E5612166BD7EE8">"Receiver Design"- what
				about it? 
				<ul id="ul_3B2ED75C34C843D1A49A8D9F0F3C95BD"> 
				  <li id="li_FEEA682CE8EB411386A8C7C3FF8209CC">TRANSISTORIZATION OF
					 RECEIVER DESIGN 
				  </li> 
				</ul> 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_77636D04E7C949EA8FE6DBF10C9E27EB"> "Target Tracking"- what
				about it? 
				<ul id="ul_4910A1DDFF7D4A189FC0F439E547EAB1"> 
				  <li id="li_F43F359A89C9460BB85AE05FE3797AB6">NEED FOR REALISM IN
					 TARGET UPDATING 
				  </li> 
				</ul> 
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		  <p>Hence, the Topic heading should be a phrase (a sentence fragment of
			 4 to 8 words), containing prepositions: 
		  </p> 
		  <ul id="ul_B8148492E5434E4CA57BBE62FCAFABA2"> 
			 <li id="li_3F31AED3F178497998993FEAD45793F3">DESIGN OF TOW CABLE FOR
				LOW DRAG 
				<ul id="ul_761CCE2E04EE4F3E81740082AF53260C"> 
				  <li id="li_D330A248CB3642A1A8F282453F235804">(not "Tow Cable
					 Design") 
				  </li> 
				</ul> 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_D8B8C9B2487F4717B7C4D21E2D22060B">REDUCTION OF
				NONSYSTEMATIC ERRORS 
				<ul id="ul_F2DA32BC6E79426EA2A2A4B7EB726B09"> 
				  <li id="li_69031827C17C45028325B3C01C3C48D2">(not "Nonsystematic
					 Errors") 
				  </li> 
				</ul> 
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		  <p>or infinitives: 
		  </p> 
		  <ul id="ul_E21972D1DE4B48E18368F78AF1BB4518"> 
			 <li id="li_51D129EBD4E0402795660C18A30D57D8">THREE WAYS TO SIMPLIFY
				ANTENNA DESIGN 
				<ul id="ul_C61BAFB4567F42EF818C9FB998B0DF8F"> 
				  <li id="li_CF4676BD7A704ABE9A9530A21AEE97E3">(not "Antenna
					 Design") 
				  </li> 
				</ul> 
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		  <p>or "ing" verbs: 
		  </p> 
		  <ul id="ul_75243BC3D30B490F8A8658157150BA03"> 
			 <li id="li_D7D5F51E997E4E0F97760FD7F4587B46">CONTROLLING
				CHARACTERISTIC IMPEDANCE 
				<ul id="ul_D37EB35CFA1C4F949EB4CEA491C26292"> 
				  <li id="li_69FE373292434758A3208557C759C695">(not "Characteristic
					 Impedance") 
				  </li> 
				</ul> 
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		  <p>If you can take a position, show your attitude with qualitative
			 words: 
		  </p> 
		  <ul id="ul_153C0AB96BD6490CAE7011ADFD8C117C"> 
			 <li id="li_4E5E8075AA834B7BAACD6672A20AA4D2">ADVANTAGES OF
				INTERLACING INSTRUCTIONS 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_669A516741C3482F8E94293CC48CF348">LIMITATIONS OF ANALOG
				AZIMUTH CONVERSION 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_22205F63D75F46D795BFBE770C55AB85">PITFALLS IN PROGRAM
				SCHEDULE CONCURRENCIES 
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		  <p>If at first you don't know "what about?" the topic heading, go back
			 and revise it for greater pertinence after you have written out the Storyboard
			 (or rough draft). 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<p> 
		  <cite>Marcia Riefer Poulsen</cite> (in a presentation named 
		  <cite>The Three Core Topic Types</cite>), suggested the following
		  naming syntax for the three core DITA information types: 
		  <lq href="http://www.slideshare.net/MarciaJohnston/three-topic-types"
			reftitle="Marcia Riefer Poulsen (2006), Three Topic Types"> 
			 <simpletable id="simpletable_55F6D5F97C4F422FAAE9FE5F7FB0CEF9"> 
				<sthead><stentry>Information
					 Type</stentry><stentry>Syntax</stentry><stentry>Examples</stentry> 
				</sthead> 
				<strow><stentry>Concept</stentry><stentry>Start with a noun or 
					 <q>about</q>, or phrase as a
					 question</stentry><stentry><q>About XYZ</q>, or 
					 <q>XYZ</q>, or 
					 <q>What is XYZ?</q></stentry> 
				</strow> 
				<strow><stentry>Task</stentry><stentry>Start with a gerund, an
					 infinitive, an imperative, or 
					 <q>how to</q>, or phrase as a
					 question</stentry><stentry><q>Setting up XYZ</q>, 
					 <q>To Set Up XYZ</q>, 
					 <q>Set Up XYZ</q>, 
					 <q>How to Set Up XYZ</q>, or 
					 <q>How do I Set Up XYZ?</q></stentry> 
				</strow> 
				<strow><stentry>Reference</stentry><stentry>Start with a noun, or
					 phrase as a question</stentry><stentry><q>Specifications</q>, 
					 <q>Do You Need to get a Name?</q></stentry> 
				</strow> 
			 </simpletable> 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
		<p>By not starting topic titles with generic phrases such as 
		  <q>How to</q> and 
		  <q>About</q>, the problem of topics being difficult to identify in a
		  list can be avoided. For example, in a list: 
		  <sl> 
			 <sli>About the 
				<ph
				 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
				
				<ph
				 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Impreza_product_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
				
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>About the 
				<ph
				 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
				Liberty 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>About the 
				<ph
				 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
				Outback 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>About the SAAB 9_2 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>About the 
				<ph
				 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
				Forester 
			 </sli> 
		  </sl> all the topics tend to blur into one. Much easier to identify
		  individual topics is a list such as: 
		  <sl> 
			 <sli><ph
				conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Impreza_product_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
				key features 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>Liberty key features 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>Outback key features 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>SAAB 9_2 key features 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>Forester key features 
			 </sli> 
		  </sl> 
		</p> 
		<lq reftitle="Marcia Riefer Poulsen, 2006">Why structure topics by
		  information type? So readers instantly know a topic's purpose: to help them
		  understand something, to help them do something, to provide supporting details.
		  
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
