<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9103" status="new"> 
  <title>Avoiding chunk structure in topics</title> 
  <shortdesc>The hierarchy of information chunks, and the sequence that chunks
	 should appear in published collections, should be defined in the ditamap and
	 not through section elements or nested topics. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>hierarchy</indexterm><indexterm>sequence</indexterm><indexterm>ditabase</indexterm><indexterm>composite
			 topics</indexterm><indexterm>chunking</indexterm><indexterm>sections</indexterm><indexterm>section
			 vs
			 topic</indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>section</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>structure<indexterm>separation
				of content and</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>separation of content and
			 form</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>A 
		<term>chunk</term>, in this context, is an identifiable block or unit of
		information, and 
		<term>chunking</term> is the process of 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organising"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		information into units.
	 </p>
	 <p>DITA has a 
		<synph>section</synph> element, used to divide topics into subsets of
		information directly related to the topic. When writing content in DITA, you
		will sometimes have to choose between chunking information into separate
		topics, or using a single topic with the information chunked into sections
		within that topic. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">In nearly all cases, separate, simple topics should be
		preferred to sections. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>One of the reasons why 
		<synph>section</synph> elements should be avoided is that they result in
		hierarchy and sequence (document structure) being embedded in the topic. If a
		chunk of content is contained within a section instead of a topic, it must
		always appear in the same sequence within the containing topic. Structured as a
		topic, the information can appear in any sequence, in any hierarchy, in any
		collection. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Sections are more difficult to re-use; the smaller the granularity of a
		document, the more re-use opportunities there are. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Cases where sections may be appropriate include single topics where the
		idea covered has many facets. DITA does not permit sections within sections
		(<term>nested sections</term>). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is technically possible to nest topics of different information types
		within a 
		<term>ditabase</term> (or 
		<term>composite</term>) topic type. However, the 
		<term>ditabase</term> topic is not intended for this purpose. It should
		only be used to contain re-use elements for mixed information types. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Using separate DITA topics doesn't mean that the topics must be
		generated as separate topics in the output. If necessary, DITA source topics
		can be grouped into a single output topic, for example, through the 
		<synph>chunking</synph> attribute in the ditamap 
		<synph>topicref</synph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">The ditamap is the correct place for hierarchy and
		sequence to be recorded. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/10325"
		reftitle="Bob Thomas, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p>The separation of content and form is central to DITA. This 
			 <i>separation</i> can be further refined into the separation of
			 content, format, structure and delivery. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>The structure of a document should principally be stored in the
			 ditamap. It is possible to store structure in topics (such as by creating
			 topics within topics, conreffed or otherwise), but this approach generally
			 breaks the rule of topics being small, stand-alone units, and restricts re-use.
			 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Phil Grisier, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/16277"> Generally I
		  agree that sections should be avoided within a topic in favor of making them
		  separate topics and stitched together with a map. I have found sections
		  occasionally useful in high-level concepts when the concept has several facets.
		  Using sections after the topic paragraph helps reinforce the faceted nature of
		  the concept. Generally each section is a paragraph, or two paragraphs with a
		  figure, bulleted list of (horrors!) a table. (:&gt;). If a section ends up
		  requiring three paragraphs, my rule of thumb says it should be in a separate
		  topic. I don't worry too much about the re-use issue in the case above. If
		  someone wants to re-use a facet description somewhere else, I figure they can
		  con-ref the section. Furthermore, I only use sections if the facet description
		  really doesn't stand on it's own. 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/16255"
		 reftitle="David Linton, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> 
		  <p> --- "mdd01pa" wrote: &gt; &gt; 
			 <q>Is it possible to specialize the section element to allow other
				section elements to be contained within it 
			 </q> 
		  </p> 
		  <p>You can only add constraints when specializing, and the
			 &lt;section&gt; element defined in &lt;topic&gt; already doesn't permit nested
			 &lt;section&gt; elements, so any specialization of &lt;section&gt; must also
			 not permit &lt;section&gt; (or any specialization of it.) When you want to make
			 subsections, really you should use nested topics (and pull them in from the
			 map.) I would recommend not using the plain &lt;section&gt; element at all if
			 you can help it, but treating it purely as a base for specializations like
			 &lt;example&gt;, &lt;context&gt; etc. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq href="http://groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/16259"
		reftitle="Eliot Kimber, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"> I have seen in myself and
		  others a natural progression from "why can't I nest sections?" to "Everything
		  is a topic". In particular, you start to arrive at the conclusion that if the
		  author can set the title value, it should be a topic and if the title is
		  invariant it is probably a section. Section is intended primarily for use in
		  reference topics where each reference topic has a consistent set of sections,
		  e.g., traditional man pages. They can be useful in other topic types as an
		  informal titled division within a topic, but in general, you start to find that
		  if it has an author-specified title it should probably be a subtopic. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Eliot Kimber, OASIS DITA TC mailing list"> 
		  <p>I originally had the same reaction as others in thinking that
			 sections should be allowed to nest (you can check the mail archives). But upon
			 further reflection I came to realize that everything you want to do with nested
			 sections can be done with nested topics and you avoid the very real danger of
			 putting a whole document in a single topic body. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>In short, DITA currently says that a topic is really the smallest
			 atomic unit of content organization. Once you accept that, then lots of things
			 become easier. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Until you accept this you will likely be very frustrated. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
