<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D2366" status="new"> 
  <title>How detailed should a topic be?</title> 
  <shortdesc>A DITA topic should be as short as possible, but as long as is
	 necessary to convey its information independently. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>granularity</indexterm><indexterm>topic<indexterm>length</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>size<indexterm>topic</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>length<indexterm>topic</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The amount of information per topic within a publication is sometimes
		referred to as 
		<term>topic granularity</term>. A DITA topic should contain just one idea
		or answer a single question. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In some cases, a topic may be extremely short, as in the following
		example of an emergency procedure for a jet fighter aircraft. 
		<codeblock>&lt;task&gt;
&lt;title&gt;Engine failure below 10,000 feet&lt;/title&gt;
&lt;taskbody&gt;
 &lt;steps&gt;
  &lt;step&gt;&lt;cmd&gt;Eject.&lt;/cmd&gt;&lt;/step&gt;
 &lt;/steps&gt;
&lt;/taskbody&gt;
&lt;/task&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In other cases, a topic describing a very complex procedure, a very
		complex concept, an extensive glossary, or a lengthy reference table, may be
		the equivalent of many pages long. For example, a reference topic listing all
		the makes and models of cars of the 20th century is very lengthy, but still
		covers just one subject. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">A topic should be as short as possible, but long
		enough to be independent of other topics. In other words, it must make sense on
		its own in any context. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group" scope="external" format="html"
		 href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/6700" > 
		  <p>I could be facile and say that a topic needs as much detail as a
			 piece of string needs length, but there's often a bit of flexibility in a
			 system, and it's probably up to you (as your company's information architect)
			 to make an executive decision. The good news is that since it's all XML, if you
			 find later that your decision was wrong then it isn't too difficult to refactor
			 the content. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>For a lot of user documentation, both re-use and one-idea-per-topic
			 tend to dictate the same amount of granularity. That's not by accident;
			 topic-based authoring came about partly to make those two requirements roughly
			 equivalent. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>But DITA is sometimes used for things that aren't so obviously user
			 documentation. DITA-OT has a sample plugin that demonstrates topics describing
			 Java APIs. There's quite a bit of nesting of topics. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Ben David, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/6715" scope="external" format="html">"A topic
		  should be like a woman's skirt - long enough to cover the essentials, and short
		  enough to maintain interest." 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
