<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D1986" status="new"> 
  <title>Identifying the information type</title> 
  <shortdesc>Concept, task and reference topics contain different types of
	 content. Concept topics contain explanations, task topics contain procedural
	 steps, and reference topics contain tabular look-up information. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>information
			 types<indexterm>identifying</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>identifying
			 information types</indexterm><indexterm>topic
			 types<indexterm>identifying</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content
			 model</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>An important skill of an author working in a DITA environment is 
		<term>typing</term> information correctly into information types. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Of the three base DITA information types: 
	 </p> 
	 <ul id="ul_606B1DFB438F4FB189DF4A670BC0CF74"> 
		<li id="li_736FDDDF72504D168D3C8D795DB19FBB"> 
		  <term>Concept</term> topics are used for overviews of tasks or
		  overviews of reference information. They tend to be short and simple. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_BC2DED4F050B44588F26E0A4473652E5"><term>Task</term> topics
		  contain procedural steps. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_CF6C494C99A94070A29B1E13953122B9"><term>Reference</term>
		  topics detail properties and other reference (as opposed to narrative)
		  information, typically in tabular form. 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 <p>In some types of documents, an instruction may be described with a set
		of concept, task and reference topics. For example, the use of a car's alarm
		system may be covered by: 
	 <ul id="ul_D0FEC827AD01474C99E40F4862686A6C"> 
		<li id="li_CB4305F25254403E8DD76AF6A5D53108"><q>Alarm systems</q>
		  (concept) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_89E0E72433C14D7CA00BD75FDD97EABF"><q>Setting the alarm</q>
		  (task) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_FD572A40401F4094B4F0B59DB39C25EC"><q>Alarm codes</q>
		  (reference) 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Such a set of topics would be associated using a 
		<term>reltable</term>, so that the topics would be linked or associated
		in the deliverable document. A typical procedure will require a concept topic
		and a task topic, and may require a reference topic. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>While task information is generally easy to identify, it can be
		difficult to distinguish concept from reference information. 
		<xref
		href="c_Identifying_the_Information_Type.dita#D1986/table_concept_vs_reference"
		type="table" format="dita" scope="local"><?xm-replace_text Characteristics of concept and reference topics ?></xref>
		explains some of the characteristics of concept topics compared with reference
		topics. 
	 </p> 
	 <table id="table_concept_vs_reference" rowheader="firstcol"> 
	 <title>Characteristics of concept and reference topics </title> 
	 <tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec
		colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/> 
		<thead> 
		  <row valign="top"> 
			 <entry align="left">  
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left">Concept 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left">Reference 
			 </entry> 
		  </row> 
		</thead> 
		<tbody> 
		  <row valign="top"> 
			 <entry align="left">Purpose/Function 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>Explanatory 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>Fact 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
		  </row> 
		  <row valign="top"> 
			 <entry align="left">Access Frequency 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>A few times 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>Repeatedly, when needed 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
		  </row> 
		  <row valign="top"> 
			 <entry align="left">Book Context 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>Front, Middle 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>Back 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
		  </row> 
		  <row valign="top"> 
			 <entry align="left">Content or Data 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>Content 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
			 <entry align="left"> 
				<p>Data 
				</p> 
			 </entry> 
		  </row> 
		</tbody> 
	 </tgroup> 
	 </table> 
	 <p> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_964F04901FB04F6ABDF3ED35650398C8"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>Here's how 
		  <xref href="http://www.dclab.com/dita_conversion_tips.asp"
			scope="external" format="html">Michael Gross of DCLNews</xref> describes topics
		  following on from his camera manual example. 
		  <lq>In addition to breaking the documents into topics, DITA provides
			 for three built-in topic types, Tasks (such as "Changing the Memory Card"),
			 Concepts ("How Lighting Affects Your Pictures"), and References ("Physical
			 Specifications of the Camera"). The types of topics would normally not have
			 been defined in the source data. Just as in deciding where to break down your
			 topics, you may need someone who knows the data to go through it and define
			 DITA topic types. 
		  </lq> 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
