<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D1639" status="new"> 
  <title>Information types</title> 
  <shortdesc>A fundamental principle of DITA is 
	 <term>information typing</term>, which 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_categorises"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 information according to the nature of the content. The three base DITA
	 information types are concept, task and reference. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>information
			 types</indexterm><indexterm>content model</indexterm><indexterm>base content
			 model</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The aim of all sorts of written communication is to transmit a message.
		The purpose, the audience and the delivery method determine the best approach. 
	 </p> 
	 <p id="infotype_categories">DITA 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_categorises"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		key business information by communication purpose, or 
		<term>information type</term>. There are three base DITA information
		types: concept, task and reference. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The concept, task, and reference base types are sometimes called core
		information types, as they are considered to be universally relevant. 
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2">In 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		the task information type was separated into 
		<term>general task</term> and 
		<term>strict task</term>. The 
		<term>strict task</term> information type is the equivalent of the 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA11"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		
		<term>task</term>, while the general task has much relaxed content rules.
		
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2">The glossary entry (<synph>glossentry</synph>) information
		type was introduced in 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		as a 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		of the concept information type. 
	 </p> 
	 <note
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/note_stricttask_equals_task"><?xm-replace_text {note}?>
	 </note> 
	 <section id="section_9435A4306946437EB94F0506B229C596"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Marcia Riefer Poulsen, 2006">Why call them core types?
		  Could say core types, super-types, archetypes or 
		  <i>ur</i> types. These types are universally relevant and customizable.
		  
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
