<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D4701"> 
  <title>To 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 or not to 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph></title>
  
  <shortdesc><ph
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_Specialisation_InitCap"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 has pros and cons. It adds technical complexity, but can provide better and
	 more appropriate information structures. 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_Specialisation_InitCap"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 should be carefully planned. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/index_specialisation_pros_cons"><?xm-replace_text Index Term?></indexterm><indexterm>skills</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>One of the most difficult questions for DITA adopters is whether or not
		to 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.
		
	 </p> 
	 <p>One of the impediments to 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is the perceived technical difficulty in both designing the structure and
		coding the necessary schema files. Certainly, 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is beyond the skills of a typical technical writer. However, a DITA project
		team should include a broad range of expertise, and outsourcing tasks that are
		beyond the capabilities of the team is a good strategy. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>On the other hand, unless you fully understand the reasons why the base
		content models are inadequate for your own content, you should not 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.
		
	 </p> 
	 <p>Before designing your own 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		information type, you should check to ensure that there is no public domain 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		that would suit your needs. A number of public domain 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisations"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		have been developed by OASIS DITA sub-committees, industry groups, and
		individuals. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_907CFE8C707E4170AF6FEAEB19FB55CA"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Bruce Nevin, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list">It seems to
		  me that it is common for vendors and consultants to promote the use of vanilla
		  DITA and to counsel their customers to minimise specialisation. Yes, users
		  should proceed cautiously and circumspectly with specialisation, but if they
		  think that it is a DITA best practice to use only the base content models they
		  are badly misunderstanding that guidance. Certainly, minimising specialisation
		  simplifies implementation, customisation, and support; possibly some vendors or
		  consultants do not adequately communicate the point; possibly some do not fully
		  embrace it. 
		</lq> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Eliot Kimber, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list">The base
		  DITA content models are *NOT* authoring models and cannot be. They are the
		  models needed to enable an appropriate range of specializations and/or local
		  mark-up practices. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
