<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9341" rev="1.2" status="new"> 
  <title>Using 
	 <synph>sectiondiv</synph> and 
	 <synph>bodydiv</synph> Elements</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <synph>sectiondiv</synph> and 
	 <synph>bodydiv</synph> elements are used to help authors re-use a group of
	 block elements as a single unit. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>conref<indexterm>spanning</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>elements<indexterm>sectiondiv</indexterm><indexterm>bodydiv</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>sectiondiv
			 element</indexterm><indexterm>bodydiv element</indexterm><indexterm>div
			 elements</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		introduced 
		<synph>sectiondiv</synph> and 
		<synph>bodydiv</synph> elements. These elements mimic the HTML 
		<synph>div</synph> element, which is used to group blocks of content that
		don't have any formal (or semantic) connection. In HTML, the 
		<synph>div</synph> element is mainly used in conjunction with CSS and
		Dynamic HTML. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<synph>bodydiv</synph> element allows block elements in the body of a
		topic to be grouped and treated as a single unit in processing. The 
		<synph>sectiondiv</synph> element likewise allows block elements in a
		section of a topic to be grouped and treated as a single unit. The two elements
		are intended as an aid for the author, and their use will be invisible to the
		reader of the deliverable document. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The most common use of 
		<synph>sectiondiv</synph> and 
		<synph>bodydiv</synph> is to group paragraphs so they can be re-used
		(through a 
		<term>conref</term>) as one unit, as an alternative to 
		<term>conref spanning</term>, where a start and end point of a conref
		source is specified. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">As you should avoid sections (and prefer separate
		topics), the need to use the 
		<synph>sectiondiv</synph> element will be limited. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>An example of the 
		<synph>bodydiv</synph> element is: 
		<codeblock>&lt;conbody&gt;
...
&lt;bodydiv id="ebd_intro"&gt;
&lt;p&gt;The EBD functions by adjusting the distribution of braking force to the 
rear wheels in accordance with the vehicle's loading condition and speed.&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;p&gt;The EBD system is an integral part of the ABS system and uses some of the 
ABS system's components to perform its function of optimizing the 
distribution of braking force. If any of the ABS components used by 
the EBD function fails, the EBD system also stops working.&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/bodydiv&gt; 
&lt;/conbody&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The two paragraphs in the example might be re-used in another topic as: 
		<codeblock>&lt;conbody&gt;
&lt;p&gt;Your vehicle is equipped with Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBF).&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;bodydiv conref="c_ebd.dita#concept_ebd_explanation/ebd_intro" /&gt;
...
&lt;/conbody&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		reftitle="Overview of DITA 1.2 presentation by Kristen James Ebelein,RealWorld DITA Conference, 14 September 2009">
		  
		  <p>&lt;sectiondiv&gt; and &lt;bodydiv&gt; allow elements to be grouped
			 within sections and body elements: 
		  </p> 
		  <ul id="ul_6719DBB9C5224690804762E8BD4C0613"> 
			 <li id="li_B5B6B3CFBC5B422EBA487A78EBAABA38">These elements can nest
				each other, but do not allow titles 
			 </li> 
			 <li id="li_C94952C6C59441FA9DBA87A59C80276C">Used to group elements
				for reuse through conref 
			 </li> 
		  </ul> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
