<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9113" status="new"> 
  <title>Composite (<term>ditabase</term>)</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <term>composite</term> or 
	 <term>ditabase</term> topic is a now obsolete tool for collecting multiple
	 topics and nesting them within a single topic file. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>information
			 types<indexterm>dita</indexterm><indexterm>ditabase</indexterm><indexterm>composite</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>ditabase
			 information
			 type<index-see-also>ditabase</index-see-also></indexterm><indexterm>ditabase</indexterm><indexterm>dita
			 information type</indexterm><indexterm>composite information
			 type</indexterm><indexterm>composite topics</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In the early days of DITA, the composite, or 
		<term>ditabase</term>, information type was developed as a way of
		collecting topics together for publication before the 
		<term>ditamap</term> was created. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The ditabase composite topic allows other topics (of any information
		type) to be nested within it. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The ditamap is a superior method for collecting topics together, and
		should always be used in preference to ditabase. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>However, ditabase still has some use as a container for re-use
		information, because it allows concept, task, reference and other information
		type elements to be contained within the same topic. This can be useful if you
		want to 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		snippets of conref source information into a single topic. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Do not use ditabase as a means of creating an output topic with mixed
		information types. If this is necessary, you should use the 
		<synph>chunk</synph> attribute as an alternative. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The root element of a ditabase topic is 
		<synph>dita</synph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Joe Gershon, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list">We need to
		  remain focused. Who is our primary target user group? What are their use cases?
		  AFAIK the answers are tech pubs groups documenting technical documentation of
		  hardware and software systems. For this user group and set of use cases,
		  ditabase is not a best practice (beyond perhaps a quick and dirty migration
		  path). For meeting notes, white papers, and a host of other things ditabase may
		  be the best practice, but those users and use cases are not (correct me if I'm
		  wrong) the primary target of the DITA TC. 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Jeff Ogden, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list"> 
		  <p>The problem I've seen is that users and organizations that are new
			 to DITA often choose to use ditabases or deeply nested topics for what I
			 consider the wrong reasons.  Often the reason is that ditabases and nested
			 topics are "easy" since they are similar to what they have been doing in Word
			 or in docbook or in some other "traditional" tool. So they adopt a practice of
			 using a ditabase or deeply nested topics without having to confront the issue
			 of possibly needing to rewrite some of their content into a topic oriented
			 style or to sort out mixed content within the same topic (the differences
			 between concept, reference, and task). And they duck having to learn how to
			 really use and benefit from maps. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>The challenge for us is how to find a way to explain best practices
			 as compared with what is simply allowed.  And we have to do this without
			 confusing new users who may already be overwhelmed with too much new
			 information as they are getting started. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>This makes me think that new users should be encouraged to start off
			 using maps and avoid using ditabases or nested topics. As they gain more
			 experience they can choose to use ditabases or nested topics.  
		  </p> 
		  <p>For similar reasons I think new users should initially avoid the use
			 of conref in maps and possibly conref entirely. Later as they gain experience
			 they can choose to add the use of conref in topics if they wish.  And later
			 still and with even more caution they can choose to use conref in maps. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
