<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="Dc_What_is_a_Topic" status="new"> 
  <title>What is a topic?</title> 
  <shortdesc>A topic in DITA is an independent chunk of information covering a
	 single idea or task, authored as a unit, and stored in its own file. Topics are
	 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_categorised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 by information type. DITA's topic-based architecture enables the same topic to
	 be used in different publications. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>topic</indexterm><indexterm>unit of
			 discourse</indexterm><indexterm>modular</indexterm><indexterm>section vs
			 topic</indexterm><indexterm>topic vs section</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA is designed around a topic-based information architecture; topics
		are the building blocks of DITA documents. The topic-based approach in DITA is
		similar in many ways to the topic-based approach of most hypertext systems. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Spec"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		defines a topic as follows: 
		<lq>A topic is a unit of information with a title and content, short
		  enough to be specific to a single subject or answer a single question, but long
		  enough to make sense on its own and be authored as a unit. 
		</lq> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The DITA approach is that the author writes a topic independently of the
		publication in which it may eventually be published. (A publication is created
		by assembling topics into a hierarchical structure and 
		<q>publishing</q> the collection of topics to a reading format.) This 
		<term>topic-oriented writing</term> is a disciplined approach to writing
		that emphasises modularity and re-use of concise units of information<cite
		product="academic_only"> (OASIS, 2007)</cite>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A topic is created as a standalone chunk of information, typically
		limited to one idea. A well-written topic will fully convey that idea in one
		reading. Technically, a DITA topic can be as minimal as just a title, but
		practically that can only occur when the title alone conveys the idea
		completely. A topic is stored in its own file. Topics are 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_categorised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		into different 
		<term>information types</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">Although topics can technically be broken down into
		sections, you must take care to ensure that sections are not used as an
		alternative to topics. Sections should only be used where the single idea being
		conveyed in the topic is complex. Using sections instead of topics detracts
		from modularity. 
	 </p> 
	 <note>A number of DITA (source) topics can be later assembled into a single
		deliverable topic, such as an XHTML topic. DITA includes a 
		<synph>chunk</synph> attribute for this purpose. You should not create
		topics in DITA according to how you want the information chunked in the
		deliverable reading format. 
	 </note> 
	 <section id="section_FDEFED9AB2AC4E2C9C830434E2769F21"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>On the DITA TC mailing list, Eliot Kimber 
		  <cite>(citation required) 
		  </cite>started a discussion about the nature of a topic. His focus was
		  on the use of section elements within topics. A section element is used to
		  break up a topic into smaller units. Each section has a title. An alternative
		  structure to a topic with sections is multiple topics (one per "section") bound
		  together with a ditamap. The ditamap provides the sequence and hierarchical
		  structure for the "sections". 
		</p> 
		<lq reftitle="Michael Gross, DCL News"> 
		  <p><b>Definition of "Topic"</b> 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Topics are probably the most important new concept within DITA. The
			 idea is to break down conventional documents into topics that can stand on
			 their own. Each topic becomes separate units or files. These topics can then be
			 reassembled into more traditional manuals by using a feature of DITA called
			 maps. By breaking down documents into many standalone topics you increase the
			 reusability of your data. For example, if you manufacture digital cameras and
			 produce manuals for many cameras that each use the same memory card and
			 mechanism, you can isolate the discussion of changing the memory card to its
			 own topic. You can then more easily share that topic among the many manuals
			 that need information. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>The challenge when converting legacy data, is that the delineation
			 of the appropriate location to break down your data into standalone topics
			 probably does not exist in your original document. Your documents were probably
			 designed for paper manuals, so you'll need someone who knows the data well,
			 perhaps even a Subject Matter Expert, go through the document to mark the
			 pieces of your documents that make sense as separate topics. Since topics can
			 contain subtopics, some serious thought needs to be put into this process. 
		  </p> 
		  <p outputclass="hwsource">Source: 
			 <xref href="http://www.dclab.com/dita_conversion_tips.asp"
			  scope="external" format="html">Michael Gross, DCLNews</xref> 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Marcia Riefer Poulsen, The Three Core Topic Types">What's a
		  topic? An information chunk that answers one question, has a heading, and can
		  stand alone (make sense in any context). 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
