<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-au" id="D9136"> 
  <title>Example: FAQ (or Question and Answer) as Specialised Information
	 Type</title> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p><?xm-replace_text Paragraph?>
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_444AFE9E2D0C412FA36AAD511CD30B2C"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq>ejosejulie wrote: &gt; In the troubleshooting section of the
		  document, I want to design the &gt; page with all the questions in the
		  beginning that is linked to the &gt; answers in the same page. Please explain
		  how to do it? The low-tech way is to use &lt;xref&gt; for the questions at the
		  beginning. Each one points to the Question+Answer which comes later in the
		  topic. I'd probably use &lt;section&gt; for a Question+Answer, &lt;title&gt;
		  for the question, and &lt;p&gt; for the answer. &lt;concept id="thistopic"&gt;
		  &lt;title&gt;Troubleshooting&lt;/title&gt; &lt;conbody&gt; &lt;sl&gt;
		  &lt;sli&gt;&lt;xref href="#thistopic/q1"&gt;What is
		  foo?&lt;/xref&gt;&lt;/sli&gt; &lt;!-- More questions --&gt; &lt;/sl&gt;
		  &lt;section id="q1"&gt; &lt;title&gt;What is foo?&lt;/title&gt; &lt;p&gt;foo is
		  a word used as a placeholder by geeks.&lt;/p&gt; &lt;/section&gt; &lt;!-- More
		  answers. --&gt; &lt;/conbody&gt; &lt;/concept&gt; 
		</lq> 
		<p><cite>Source: Deborah Pickett, Yahoo! DITA Users Group</cite> 
		</p> 
		<p> 
		  <draft-comment>Turn this into a worked example... 
		  </draft-comment> 
		</p> 
		<p>Follow up from Michael Priestley 
		</p> 
		<lq>Or a reference topic, with nested reference topic children - put the
		  &lt;related-links&gt; to the children in the container reference topic. Same
		  idea as others, but moving from xref and section to link and topic, which I
		  tend to prefer for architectural reasons (like ability to integrate with
		  map-based linking at some later point) 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
