<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_606E86DBA96D4567A7CF5AE96CA5E5C8"> 
  <title>About 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph></title>
  
  <shortdesc>As more companies implement DITA to streamline the development of
	 technical content, the demand for DITA-literate technical communicators is
	 growing. 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 provides comprehensive, practical explanations of DITA elements and attributes.
	 Real-world examples and clear recommendations show you how to create
	 consistent, semantically-correct DITA content. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/author_tony_self"></author>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Guide_Full"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is designed to help DITA authors implement DITA consistently by providing an
		authoritative reference (in the same way that 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/Chicago_short"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		provides a reference for matters of language, writing and presentational
		style). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Some rules and recommendations may be controversial or contentious, and
		you may not agree with them. However, the purpose of 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is to make a 
		<q>ruling</q> one way or the other, so that at least a consistent
		approach can be adopted. 
	 </p> 
	 <p product="academic_only">For example, 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		tells you to use 
		<synph>uicontrol</synph> element for keyboard keystrokes, rather than 
		<synph>userinput</synph>. You could argue about whether this is right or
		wrong, but the main point is that it makes a decision. It is meant to
		supplement the Language Reference. 
	 </p> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is written for the DITA base content model, and not for 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisations"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.
		(The nature of 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		would make it impossible to write usage rules!) 
	 </p> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is not an exhaustive set of rules or guidelines; it addresses the most common
		questions that DITA users ask, based on analysis of the 
		<cite>Yahoo! DITA Users Group</cite> mailing list<ph
		product="academic_only"> over a three year period</ph>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is not authoring-tool specific, so by necessity it uses neutral code examples,
		rather than examples of what might appear in a 
		<term>WYSIOO</term> editor, or other tool-specific interactions. There
		are many practical examples, most built around a fictitious car manual. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Style guides are often arranged alphabetically, but 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is arranged into nine chapters covering different aspects of DITA mark-up. It
		is intended to be referenced, rather than read (it's not a 
		<q>good read</q>), so the index is comprehensive. 
	 </p> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is not intended to teach you about DITA, and is aimed at people already working
		in a DITA environment. It assumes a working knowledge of XML principles, such
		as the way elements and attributes work. 
	 </p> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is specifically intended to be used in conjunction with, or as a supplement to,
		the 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Lang_Reference"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		and not as an alternative to it. The online version of 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		will have links to the 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Lang_Reference"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.
		
	 </p> 
	 <p>In the medium term, it is planned that 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		will become an open source community resource, probably in the form of a
		DITA-based Wiki. 
		<ph product="academic_only">Justifications and rationale for rules and
		  recommendations have been recorded in the source code, and although these will
		  not be reproduced in the printed commercial version, they will be available in
		  the open source community version to provide an audit trail for decisions. 
		</ph> 
	 </p> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		was written in 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA11"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		and mostly follows its own recommendations! However, it's almost certain that
		mistakes were made, despite best efforts to eliminate them. For changes and
		errata, please visit 
		<xref
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/xref_ditastyle_com"></xref>.
		
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
