<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_05F6F743635C43FB8410C0246DB2BAB6"> 
  <title>Acknowledgements</title> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>I would like to thank the people who helped me bring 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		project to fruition. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>I owe a huge debt of gratitude to Scott Prentice, who spent a great deal
		of time and effort on a technical review of the content. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>I give special thanks to Kris Eberlein, Gary Kilsen, Sarah O'Keefe, and
		Kathy Betts, who inspired, supported and/or encouraged me in this project. I 
		<q>dips me lid</q> to John Hunt, who first got me involved in the DITA
		world. To the Yahoo! DITA Users Group community, and especially those such as
		Deb Pickett who patiently and diligently answer the questions of others, thank
		you! 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Thank you Mike Hughes and Jen Linton for permission to reproduce some
		illustrations and examples in this Guide. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Thanks also to Fiona Self for undertaking the copy editing task, and to
		Nolwenn Kerzreho for reviewing the content. Su-Laine Yeo and the JustSystems
		team deserve my gratitude for their support for the project. It would also be
		remiss of me not to mention the help of Matthew Ellison, Suku Sinnappan, Helen
		Self, and Joe Welinske. To anyone whose acknowledgement I've overlooked, I
		sincerely apologise! 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A project of this time and nature takes a lot of time and emotional
		energy, and I give thanks to my wife Penny Bradley for helping me every step of
		the way. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is also important to me that I acknowledge the efforts of the OASIS
		DITA Technical Committee and the OASIS DITA Adoption Technical Committee, whose
		members generously donate countless hours of their considerable experience and
		expertise to the technical communication community. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
