<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D9183"> 
  <title>Challenges for new DITA authors</title> 
  <shortdesc>The philosophical differences between style-based authoring and
	 semantic authoring present the greatest challenges for new DITA authors. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>style vs
			 format</indexterm><indexterm>separation of content and
			 form</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In style-based authoring, the structure of a document is defined by the
		styles applied to its components. For example, a second level heading might be
		defined in a document by the application of a 
	 <option>heading 2</option> style. Likewise, the presentational style of the
	 deliverable document is defined by styles embedded within the authored
	 document. For example, text to be indented by 2 cm might be defined in the
	 paragraph by the application of an 
	 <option>Indent2</option> style. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The separation of content and form in DITA sees the upper-level
		structure being defined outside the content (in the ditamap), and the
		presentational style being applied in a publishing process entirely separate
		from the authoring process. The presentational form for a document can be
		unknown to the DITA author. The same topic can have different appearances and
		different structures when the same source content is used to produce different
		deliverable documents. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, a DITA topic in one deliverable document may have a 
	 <option>heading 2</option> style applied during processing, but the same
	 topic in a different deliverable document may have 
	 <option>heading 4</option> applied. The publishing rules determine the
	 mapping of DITA semantic elements to output presentational form. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>These differences between style-based authoring and semantic authoring
		present the greatest challenge to new DITA authors. 
	 </p> 
	 <p> 
		<draft-comment>Mention the difference between a heading and a title. 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_898630BD571A4FD8807774911188B4B7"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Richard Ward, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
		 href="http://tech.dir.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/14738" scope="external" format="html">I've
		  been reading about XML and Dita for the past couple of weeks, and for the most
		  part, it all seems very exciting. I've got myself oXygen and am ready to go.
		  But I have to admit it's fiendishly complex and I've yet to discover how I
		  actually get the output to look the way I want it to look. I'm talking about
		  the header1, header2 ... paragraph styles and the master page layout in my
		  generated PDF. It's either so obvious that I've overlooked it, or its so
		  complicated everyone just uses the default style and doesn't bother formatting
		  the output. Richard 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
