<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_62DC88738DF34255844A153A04EA1981" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Conditions, filtering, variants and ditaval</title> 
  <shortdesc>Many confusing terms are used to describe different parts of the
	 conditional publishing process. Understanding the terms is key to understanding
	 the concepts. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>variables</indexterm><indexterm>variants</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm><indexterm>conditional publishing<index-see>conditional
				processing</index-see></indexterm><indexterm>metadata
			 attributes</indexterm><indexterm>attributes</indexterm><indexterm>ditaval</indexterm><indexterm>profiling</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm><indexterm>flagging</indexterm><indexterm>excluding<indexterm>content</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Different technologies, and different authoring tools, use the terms 
		<term>conditions</term>, 
		<term>conditional publishing</term>, 
		<term>variables</term>, 
		<term>variants</term>, 
		<term>flagging</term>, 
		<term>profiling</term>, and 
		<term>filtering</term> in different ways. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>DITA has built-in features to enable some content to be excluded or
		highlighted during the publishing process. These features are standard metadata
		attributes that can be applied to most DITA elements, and a 
		<term>ditaval</term> standard used to define how attributes are handled
		during publishing. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, the same topic might appear in an administrator manual and
		a consumer manual, but some paragraphs may only apply to the administrator. If
		those paragraphs are identified with an 
		<synph>audience</synph> attribute of 
		<userinput>administrator</userinput>, they can be conditionally excluded
		from the output if an 
		<synph>exclude</synph> rule is defined in the 
		<term>ditaval</term> file used for publishing. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In DITA, 
		<term>conditional publishing</term> describes the process where the
		metadata and 
		<term>ditaval</term> features are used together. Content identified with
		metadata attributes can be either 
		<term>excluded</term> or 
		<term>flagged</term> (highlighted in some way). Excluding content is
		commonly referred to as 
		<term>filtering</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The term 
		<term>variable</term> is sometimes used within DITA authoring teams to
		describe a word, phrase or block of text that is managed in one place, usually
		through the content reference (<term>conref</term>) or key reference
		(<term>keyref</term>) feature. The term 
		<term>variants</term> is not so commonly used, but may refer to two or
		more slightly different renditions of the same source topic. 
	 </p> 
	 <p><term>Profiling</term> is sometimes used to describe the technique of
		filtering the content displayed in a DITA editor based on the metadata
		attributes. (Not many DITA editors support profiling.) 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
