<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D4700" status="new"> 
  <title>Distinction between format and style, and data and metadata</title> 
  <shortdesc>In DITA, format has a different meaning to style. Likewise, the
	 meanings of data and metadata are very different. These distinctions in meaning
	 are important to understanding the broader concept of the separation of content
	 and form. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/author_tony_self"></author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>separation
			 of content and form</indexterm><indexterm>format vs
			 style</indexterm><indexterm>style vs format</indexterm><indexterm>data vs
			 metadata</indexterm><indexterm>metadata vs
			 data</indexterm><indexterm>presentational
			 style</indexterm><indexterm>aesthetical style</indexterm><indexterm>writing
			 style</indexterm><indexterm>authorial style</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The word 
		<q>style</q> in 
		<q>Style Guide</q> is problematic, because it has a number of subtly
		different meanings in this context. Style could mean aesthetic presentational
		style, and it could mean writing or wording style. A style could be clean and
		crisp (aesthetically) while being ponderous and wordy (stylistically). 
	 </p> 
	 <p>To distinguish between the two 
		<q>styles</q>, 
		<term>format</term> (or 
		<term>presentational style</term>) should be used when referring to
		aesthetical style, or the look and feel of the deliverable document. The term 
		<term>writing style</term> should be used when referring to the authorial
		style. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In the broader concept of the separation of content and form, 
		<term>writing style</term> belongs to 
		<term>content</term>, while 
		<term>format</term> belongs to 
		<term>form</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		touches on writing style, but does not address format at all. It 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_focusses"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		on semantic mark-up, something that is not usually necessary in conventional
		style guides. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is also important to understand the distinction between 
		<term>data</term> and 
		<term>metadata</term>. 
		<term>Data</term> is analogous to 
		<term>content</term>, while 
		<term>metadata</term> refers to information 
		<b>about</b> the content. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, the 
		<term>data</term> of a topic is the information that the reader reads
		about the subject matter of the topic. The 
		<term>metadata</term> is the supporting information about the topic that
		the reader doesn't normally read or see, such as the creation date, the author,
		the semantics of the textual components, and the copyright ownership. Metadata
		is usually more important to the author than it is to the reader. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Both 
		<term>metadata</term> and 
		<term>data</term> are in topics, but ditamaps should only contain 
		<term>metadata</term>. (It is technically possible to store some data in
		ditamaps, but you should avoid this practice.) 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_7B386BCAD89A49968F00B0A77730ABC5"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="JPL The Levels of Edit">We have also received many
		  interesting and helpful comments from users of The Levels of Edit. One of the
		  comments received after publication of the first edition was a question
		  concerning the need for such a fine distinction between format and mechanical
		  style. After all, what difference does it really make whether a particular
		  instance of capitalization, say, is called format or style? The answer is that
		  such distinctions are what make the levels-of-edit concept work, at least for
		  us. If an editor is required to do a Format Edit, but not a Mechanical Style
		  Edit (as often happens), the editor must know exactly what to do and what to
		  leave undone. The Mechanical Style Edit lifts the effort into another level of
		  edit (from Level 3 to Level 2) and could increase the cost. If the job is
		  estimated on the basis of a Level 3 edit, the editor may overrun the
		  estimate-with no justification-if he or she does not know the precise limits of
		  the effort required. 
		</lq> 
		<lq
		reftitle="Erik Hennum, OASIS DITA Technical Committee mailing list, 5 Sep 2009">*
		  Content tends to be a flow with nested annotations (division, block, phrase,
		  term, etc) and tends to be formatted for reading. * A metadata property (like
		  other data) tends to be a data structure over atomic values and tends to enable
		  operations on the content. I agree that the general tendency is only that --
		  there are many hybrids and gray areas for content and data such as a flow that
		  has a detailed structure embedding atomic values (witness API Reference) or a
		  metadata value that consists of a brief mixed content (witness
		  &lt;publisher&gt;). The distinction would be academic without the fallback to
		  general processing. If the disclaimer specializes a footnote on the body, it
		  will get formatted by default. By contrast, if it specializes &lt;data&gt; in
		  the prolog, it will get ignored silently by default (because there's no known
		  processing for a property with no semantics). 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
