<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_4D6F168A500A4E2CAAD3510DC906FC06" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Minimalism</title> 
  <shortdesc>Particularly for procedural documentation, DITA topics should be
	 written following the minimalism approach. Information should be arranged in
	 succinct, action-oriented topics that help readers to understand quickly what
	 they need to know. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/author_tony_self"></author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>minimalism</indexterm><indexterm>Caroll,
			 John</indexterm><indexterm>Nurnberg Funnel</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>Minimalism is an instructional design technique, 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_popularised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		by John Carroll in his 1990 book 
		<cite>The Nurnberg Funnel: Designing Minimalist Instruction for Practical
		  Computer Skill 
		</cite>. The DITA methodology embraces the concepts of minimalism. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Minimalism is an approach that presents the reader with the smallest
		amount of information necessary to achieve the reader's goals. The needs of the
		reader (or the learner), and not the system being documented, guide the
		information architecture and the writing style. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You can see minimalism principles in particular in the 
		<term>task</term> information type (one of the three base information
		types in DITA), which discourages the inclusion of information not directly
		related to the procedure by the task topic's strict content model. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">For technical documents produced in a DITA
		environment, design information specifically so that readers only have to read
		to learn something or to do something. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_94CC8C7E07E24FAEB101741A11292B0E"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="DITA Architecture Specification 1.0"> 
		  <p>Topic-oriented authoring for conceptual and task information has its
			 roots in 
			 <term>Minimalism</term>, an instructional design technique first
			 espoused by John Carroll. The minimalist approach to information design
			 focusses on identifying the smallest amount of instruction that allows for the
			 successful completion of a task, or that provides basic knowledge of a concept.
			 Readers have goals, and they want to achieve those goals as quickly as
			 possible. Generally, readers don't want to read information just for the
			 pleasure of reading. They are reading to learn or to do something. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Some of the key principles of 
			 <term>Minimalism</term> are: 
		  </p> 
		  <sl> 
			 <sli>Support actions. Let people act as they learn, and let them
				pursue the goals they want to accomplish. 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>Document tasks, not tools or functions. 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>Help readers anticipate and avoid errors. 
			 </sli> 
			 <sli>Let readers explore. They don't need explained what they can
				discover for themselves. 
			 </sli> 
		  </sl> 
		</lq> 
		<lq reftitle="Nikki Ward, I'd Rather Be Writing Blog"
		 href="http://www.idratherbewriting.com/2009/12/27/if-no-one-reads-the-manual-thats-okay/comment-page-1/#comment-147580">...the
		  more you give people to read the more time and money is wasted 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
