<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D2054" status="new"> 
  <title>OASIS and the DITA Technical Committee</title> 
  <shortdesc>OASIS is a not-for-profit standards body, and membership is open
	 to all. To participate in the ongoing development of the DITA standard, you
	 must join OASIS. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>OASIS</indexterm><indexterm>DITA
			 Technical Committee</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA is controlled (or perhaps a better word is 
		<q>guided</q>) by the 
		<term>DITA Technical Committee (TC)</term>. The DITA intellectual
		property is commonly-owned, with the trustee being OASIS. OASIS is a
		not-for-profit 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		- a standards body. In order to participate in an OASIS TC, including of course
		the OASIS DITA TC, you must be a member of OASIS. And although OASIS is
		not-for-profit, it recovers the cost of running the 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		through membership fees. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There are a number of membership categories. In brief, it is possible to
		join as a company or as an individual. 
		<term>Contributor</term> company membership has lower annual dues, but 
		<term>Sponsor</term> company membership offers more marketing
		opportunities. A benefits matrix on the OASIS Web site explains the difference
		between member categories. 
	 </p> 
	 <p product="academic_only">An alternative is to join as an individual. This
		builds DITA credibility for the person concerned, and allows the person to
		contribute to committees. Dues are as low as USD300 per annum for this
		membership type. The individual's employer still gets a mention, but can't use
		OASIS logos, etc. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Once the company or an individual is an OASIS member, the nominated
		person is able to participate in any or many OASIS TCs. The DITA TC is getting
		bigger over time, and doing more and more work. The TC is now spawning
		sub-committees (SC) to concentrate on more 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_specialised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		tasks and problems. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Beyond the OASIS membership dues, there are no costs in being involved
		in TCs and SCs, other than the brainpower and time contributions. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
