<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D5136" status="new"> 
  <title>The role of a style guide GEORGE</title> 
  <shortdesc>A style guide provides advice on the optimal use of approaches,
	 procedures and processes. A DITA style guide focusses on best practice
	 application of the DITA standard. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author
	 conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/author_tony_self"></author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>role
			 of a style guide</indexterm><indexterm>best
			 practice</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The primary purpose of a style guide is to promote consistency. Style
		guides also aim to codify best practice. What the term 
		<term>best practice</term> actually means is not universally understood
		or agreed. Understanding what constitutes best practice in DITA is made more
		challenging by the difficulty in finding agreed practices in this field, let
		alone best practice. Something as simple as whether paragraphs should exist
		within list items is not clear-cut. 
	 </p> 
	 <p
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/p_styleguide_defined"><?xm-replace_text Paragraph?>
	 </p> 
	 <p>It is just as easy to lazily create poorly marked-up DITA documents as
		it is to create poorly styled word processing documents. To maximise the
		opportunities of DITA, it is important that the semantic elements are applied
		consistently across a publications department, and indeed across the DITA
		authoring community. 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA_Style_Manual"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		is intended to serve as an authoritative reference that defines a best practice
		conventions for mark-up, writing style, naming, and structure. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_DE71B29761A24547843099B86DA545EE"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq
		 reftitle="Molly Riddell, LinkedIn Content Wrangler Community discussion">My
		  biggest tip is never to assume that DITA/XML will naturally converge different
		  authors to greater consistency or minimalism-- it is just as easy to develop
		  poorly-written (and structured!) content within the guidelines of DITA as it is
		  within a DTP environment. What I would recommend is to focus also on developing
		  a useful and comprehensive style guide that clearly defines preferred writing
		  style and structure, with specific, illustrative examples of how the content
		  should be marked up across different topics. In any implementation, it is
		  expected that there are at least several different authors-- so it is also
		  helpful to establish consistent conventions for topic naming and versioning.
		  This can ensure that information is easily navigated and tracked, no matter who
		  is editing it. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
