<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="Dc_Techniques" status="new"> 
  <title>Techniques to learn</title> 
  <shortdesc>Authors moving from style-based authoring to structured authoring
	 in a DITA environment will need to build chunking, 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_labelling"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 and linking skills, and to understand the technique of separation of content
	 and form. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>chunking</indexterm><indexterm
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_metadata.dita#topic_hw_conref_meta/index_labelling"><?xm-replace_text Index Term?></indexterm><indexterm>linking</indexterm><indexterm>separation
			 of content and form</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA authoring requires you to have skills that you may have used in
		style-based authoring, but which you will certainly need to use differently.
		Some skills may be entirely new to you. These skills are: 
	 <dl> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>Chunking 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Chunking refers to the way in which you break down information into
			 smaller pieces. The term is particularly (but not exclusively) used to describe
			 the way in which information is broadly 
			 <ph
			  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_categorised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
			 into 
			 <term>information types</term>, or 
			 <term>topic types</term>. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt><ph
			 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_Labelling_InitCap"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
			 (or metadata creation) 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd> Labels and catalogue information are part of a topic's or
			 collection's metadata. Metadata allows content to be filtered, sorted,
			 processed, and otherwise manipulated. Choosing accurate labels will result in
			 more flexible documents. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>Linking 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>Linking can be viewed as a technique for defining relationships
			 between topics. In DITA, best practice is to link topics by defining the ways
			 in which topics are associated, rather than manually choosing what text is
			 linked to which topic. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
		<dlentry> 
		  <dt>Separating content from form 
		  </dt> 
		  <dd>In the writing phase of structured authoring, there is no place for
			 
			 <term>form</term> (format, style and presentation). Form is not the
			 author's job. Content can be so separated by using semantics to identify each
			 element of the document. For example, rather than think that a word needs to be
			 displayed in bold, you need to think about what it is that makes it necessary
			 to distinguish that word from the others. 
		  </dd> 
		</dlentry> 
	 </dl> 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
