<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D2002" status="new" xml:lang="en"> 
  <title>History of DITA</title> 
  <shortdesc>DITA was originally developed within the technical publications
	 department at IBM, but was donated to OASIS in 2004. It is now maintained by
	 the OASIS DITA Technical Committee. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>DITA<indexterm>history</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>OASIS</indexterm><indexterm>history
			 of DITA</indexterm><indexterm>STC</indexterm><indexterm>Schell,
			 Dave</indexterm><indexterm>Priestley, Michael</indexterm><indexterm>Day,
			 Don</indexterm><indexterm>Hennum, Erik</indexterm><indexterm>Hunt,
			 John</indexterm><indexterm>ID
			 Doc</indexterm><indexterm>BookMaster</indexterm><indexterm>SGML</indexterm><indexterm>XML</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA was developed by technical communicators, for technical
		communicators. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>DITA started within the technical publications department at IBM. IBM
		had been using 
		<term
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/term_SGML"><?xm-replace_text Term?></term>
		for its documentation for many years, and had pioneered a number of document
		formats including IBM BookMaster and IBM ID Doc. The knowledge accumulated from
		working with those document formats was applied to the development of an
		XML-based document approach. The principal architects of IBM DITA were Don Day,
		Michael Priestley, and Dave Schell. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>DITA became known outside IBM after the publication of 
		<cite>An XML Architecture for Technical Documentation: The Darwin
		  Information Typing Architecture</cite> by Don Day, Erik Hennum, John Hunt,
		Michael Priestley, and David Schell at the 
		<cite>2003 
		  <term>STC</term> Conference</cite>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In March 2004, IBM donated DITA to the 
		<term>OASIS</term> standards 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		where it is now managed by the 
		<term>OASIS DITA Technical Committee</term>, or 
		<term>DITA TC</term>. In April 2005, OASIS approved Version 1.0 of the
		DITA specification. In August 2007, OASIS approved version 1.1 of the DITA
		specification. In the second half of 2010, version 1.2 of the DITA
		specification was approved. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The charter of the 
		<term>DITA TC</term> is to promote the use of the DITA architecture for
		creating standard information types and domain-specific mark-up vocabularies.
		The members of the TC are representatives from different industries, 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organisations"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		and countries. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
