<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="D2064" xml:lang="en" status="new"> 
  <title>Topic-based authoring</title> 
  <shortdesc>Content in DITA is authored in topics, rather than in larger
	 documents or publications. A DITA topic must make sense in its own right. A
	 topic is authored as a unit, not as part of a larger document. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>topic-based
			 authoring</indexterm><indexterm>topical information
			 unit</indexterm><indexterm>topical unit of
			 discourse</indexterm><indexterm>architecture<indexterm>topic-based</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>DITA has a topic-based architecture, requiring a topic-based approach to
		document authoring. The term 
		<term>topic</term> can be thought of as being short for 
		<term>topical information unit</term>, or a 
		<term>topical unit of discourse</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A topic-based architecture opens up the opportunity for large scale
		content re-use. Topics are assembled from a single pool or repository into
		different deliverable documents. Topics can be used in different publications,
		provided the topic makes sense when read in different contexts. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A special DITA file called a 
		<term>map</term> or 
		<term>ditamap</term> is used to specify topics to be included in a
		deliverable document. The ditamap doesn't store much content; it mainly
		comprises of pointers to the topics that contain the content. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Not only does a topic-based architecture allow information to be
		re-used, it also makes translation and 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_localisation"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		more efficient because the same information never has to be translated more
		than once. 
	 </p> 
	 <p> 
		<draft-comment>Reference to STOP should be added, and more stress given
		  to topical information unit. 
		</draft-comment> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_5373EA706B824976AF4793138FD9E782"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<p>In an article on the relationship between DITA, Help, and topic-based
		  authoring<cite product="academic_only"> (Doyle, 2007)</cite>, Bob Doyle
		  explains the key points of topic-based authoring well. He summarises those key
		  points as follows. 
		<ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_32E85BA278964303A51107C5D00868CB"> 
		  <li id="li_7531F28CCDED40238EC7FE3D82A09AE0">This is structured writing
			 of content in which you break down the content into topics or 
			 <term>chunks</term> which have a good chance of making sense when
			 standing alone. Single-source structured content is more reusable and
			 localisable. 
		  </li> 
		  <li id="li_E79E550B77A04BE59D0B353E01AA5913">The idea is that you then
			 assemble those topics, using 
			 <term>maps</term> which are like a table of contents. Rearrange the
			 references to topics in the TOC map, click 
			 <uicontrol>build</uicontrol>, and you create a new version of your
			 document, often in multiple output formats like HTML, PDF, and Help, and in
			 multiple languages. The real magic comes when you have different maps for
			 different purposes. You can even have one map with conditions on the topics.
			 Include Topic A when the audience is Advanced, Topic B when the audience is
			 Beginner. 
		  </li> 
		  <li id="li_FFE5C321F964442E94A5934E5756665E">If you think I am talking
			 about DITA XML, you are right. But everything I say is true also of Help
			 Authoring Tools (HAT), which for decades have been authoring topics and
			 assembling them to provide the Help systems we get with our software. 
		  </li> 
		</ul> 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
