<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_3EC0486995EC49A88542A99EFCB313D0" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Structured authoring</title> 
  <shortdesc><term>Structured authoring</term> can mean many things, but in the
	 context of this document, structured authoring means a 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_standardised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
	 methodological approach to content creation incorporating systematic 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_labelling"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
	 modular, topic-based architecture, constrained writing environments, and the
	 separation of content and form. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>SGML</indexterm><indexterm>structured
			 authoring<indexterm>definition</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>structured
			 writing</indexterm><indexterm>Information
			 Mapping</indexterm><indexterm>STOP</indexterm><indexterm>Horn,
			 Robert</indexterm><indexterm>XML</indexterm><indexterm>modular</indexterm><indexterm>separation
			 of content and form</indexterm><indexterm>open
			 source</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The term 
		<term>structured authoring</term> is applied to a wide variety of writing
		approaches, to the point that the meaning is virtually lost. Some say that most
		technical writing is 
		<q>structured authoring</q> or 
		<q>structured writing</q>, because the writing process is approached in a
		methodical structured way. According to this definition, all documents with
		some sort of structure must have been the result of a structured approach. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Methodological or scientific approaches to writing technical documents
		became prominent in the 1960s, with Robert Horn's structured writing ideas
		(later to become 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_InfoMapping"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>)
		and the 
		<term>STOP</term> methodology (developed at Hughes-Fullerton) 
		<cite product="academic_only">(Tracey et al, 1965)</cite> being two of
		the intellectual products of that era. The development of 
		<term>SGML</term> almost two decades later enabled structured approaches
		to be enforced by software tools. The development of 
		<term>XML</term> in the late 1990s transformed the way in which knowledge
		was stored. XML permitted structured information standards to be created for
		the storage of knowledge and data for all types of industries. 
		<term>XML</term> allowed standards such as 
		<term>Chemical Mark-up Language</term>, 
		<term>Mathematics Mark-up Language</term>, 
		<term>Channel Definition Format</term>, 
		<term
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/term_SVG"><?xm-replace_text Term?></term>,
		
		<term>Open Document Format</term>, and hundreds of others to be created
		by industry, government and special interest groups. In the documentation
		field, new forms of structured writing approaches emerged, enabled by 
		<term>XML</term> and the new culture of the open source movement. Amongst
		these standards was 
		<term>DITA</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A modern definition of what we now mean by 
		<term>structured authoring</term> is: 
		<lq>A 
		  <ph
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_standardised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  methodological approach to the creation of content incorporating information
		  types, systematic use of metadata, 
		  <term>XML</term>-based semantic mark-up, modular, topic-based
		  information architecture, a constrained writing environment with
		  software-enforced rules, content re-use, and the separation of content and
		  form. 
		</lq> 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_02C7688E500C44F480079D547C41B6E0"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>References</title> 
		<ul id="ul_63890CD2ACF846F3873AF857DD7EF5C1"> 
		  <li id="li_5A76AD842C374711ABE50648376F2599"
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_references.dita#concept_60C4D0117D5941E4A5F815B50A7F8454/cite_Horn_1999"><?xm-replace_text List Item?>
		  </li> 
		  <li id="li_00A210BC42B84A60AA79D2FCCF656B4C"
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_references.dita#concept_60C4D0117D5941E4A5F815B50A7F8454/cite_Weiss_1999"><?xm-replace_text List Item?>
		  </li> 
		  <li id="li_1E84C76A03A941C4BEB20CA4E92C48C2"
		  conref="../../conref/conref_source_references.dita#concept_60C4D0117D5941E4A5F815B50A7F8454/cite_Trace_Stop_1965"><?xm-replace_text List Item?>
		  </li> 
		</ul> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
