<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D1987" status="new"> 
  <title>The content reference (<synph>conref</synph>) attribute</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <term>conref</term> feature allows DITA content to be used in any number of
	 different places in a collection. The 
	 <synph>conref</synph> attribute in a referencing topic specifies the source
	 topic and the element within that topic to re-use. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>conref</indexterm><indexterm>content
			 reference</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>conref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>cross-references</indexterm><indexterm>references</indexterm><indexterm>transclusion</indexterm><indexterm>re-use</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In DITA, content can be re-used at the topic level (by using one topic
		in many ditamaps), at the block level, or at the phrase level. Any DITA
		element, be it a paragraph, a table, a task pre-requisite, a user interface
		control, a term, a cross-reference, or any other tagged chunks, can be re-used
		elsewhere. The mechanism for block and phrase level re-use is the 
		<term>content reference</term>, or 
		<term>conref</term>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The key to content referencing, or 
		<term>transclusion</term>, is the ability to identify a chunk of content
		using a simple naming structure. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>A content reference is specified by entering the address of the content
		to be re-used in the 
		<synph>conref</synph> attribute of the element into which it will be
		included or 
		<term>transcluded</term>. The 
		<synph>conref</synph> attribute value has the following syntax: 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock><varname>topicfilename</varname>#<varname>topicid</varname>/<varname>elementid</varname></codeblock> 
	 <p>where 
		<varname>topicfilename</varname> is the file name of the topic containing
		the content to be transcluded, 
		<varname>topicid</varname> is the 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute of the topic, and 
		<varname>elementid</varname> is the 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute of the element to be re-used. (This naming
		convention is also used for cross-referencing and other types of linking.) 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if the source of the content to be transclude is a
		paragraph (p) element with an 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute of 
		<userinput>intercooler_temperature</userinput>, in a topic with a file
		name of 
		<filepath>c_intercooler.dita</filepath> and an 
		<synph>id</synph> attribute of 
		<userinput>concept_turbo_intercooler</userinput>, then the referencing
		paragraph element will be coded as: 
		<codeblock>&lt;p conref="c_intercooler.dita#concept_turbo_intercooler/intercooler_temperature"/&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The conref idea originated in SGML. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_E334706CC7EA4B709C99E5CDBE544690"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Michael Gross, DCLNews"
			href="http://www.dclab.com/dita_conversion_tips.asp" scope="external" format="html">In addition to the ability
		  to break down documents into topics. DITA provides a mechanism called 
		  <term>conref</term>, which allows you to reuse chunks of text by
		  referring to them from other documents. Reducing the amount of duplicated text
		  is always a good idea, and cleaning up your data may result in more candidates
		  for CONREF reuse. So for instance, you might have a warning throughout your
		  manuals "This camera is not waterproof. Please do not use this camera in the
		  rain." CONREF allows you to place that text in one location, and pull it in any
		  number of others, thereby only having to maintain one version of this text. If
		  you want to take advantage of the CONREF mechanisms as part of your legacy
		  conversion, you'll need to think about how you might look through your document
		  set and find candidates for CONREF reuse. 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
