<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D2041" status="new"> 
  <title>Embedded topics and ditamaps</title> 
  <shortdesc>The 
	 <term>ditamap</term> is a powerful tool for re-using topics in different
	 output publications. Topics can also be re-used using 
	 <term>ditabase</term> topics, but you should avoid this technique. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>ditabase</indexterm><indexterm>ditamap</indexterm><indexterm>embedded
			 topics</indexterm><indexterm>composite topics</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>It is possible to create a 
		<term>document</term> made up of one topic. For example, you may be
		writing a product information sheet as a reference topic type, and that's it.
		The sheet doesn't belong in a manual or in a collection of topics. It's a
		standalone topic. However, this scenario is the exception, rather than the
		rule. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The purpose of a ditamap is to 
		<term>bind</term> a set of topics together into a 
		<term>collection</term>, using topic reference (<synph>topicref</synph>)
		elements. The same topic can be re-used in different ditamaps defining
		different output publications. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There is another way in which you can collect topics together: through a
		
		<term>ditabase</term> topic. It's not necessarily the right way to
		collect topics, but it may be appropriate in some circumstances (although some
		DITA purists would say that it is never appropriate). The 
		<term>ditabase</term> information type was designed as a means of
		collecting multiple topics together into one composite file. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The root node of a 
		<term>ditabase</term> topic is 
		<synph>dita</synph>. The 
		<synph>dita</synph> element (or 
		<term>wrapper</term>) allows you to nest several 
		<term>child</term> topics (as siblings of each other). You can mix and
		match topic types in this way, such that a 
		<synph>dita</synph> element could contain three 
		<synph>task</synph> elements, a 
		<synph>concept</synph> element, two 
		<synph>topic</synph> elements, and a 
		<synph>reference</synph> element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>If constituent topics are transcluded into the composite 
		<term>ditabase</term> topic, those topics can be re-used in other
		composite topics. In other words, the 
		<term>ditabase</term> topic can serve as an alternative to a ditamap. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You should avoid or at least 
		<ph
		 conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_minimise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		the technique, though. Topics embedded in other topics become difficult to
		re-use, and difficult to handle in other ways. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">The preferred method of re-using topics is with the
		ditamap. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
