<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D2821" status="new"> 
  <title>Finding elements to re-use</title> 
  <shortdesc>Logically 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_organising"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 re-use elements into re-use files is one strategy to make re-use easier, but a
	 DITA 
	 <term>Content Management System</term> will provide management features
	 superior to files in a simple file system. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>re-use<indexterm>finding elements
				to re-use</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content re-use<indexterm>finding
				elements to re-use</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>finding re-use
			 elements</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>One of the challenges of working with re-use elements is how to find and
		otherwise manage them. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>The questions that content authors encounter include: 
	 <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_543F8B922C0D417F9F7ABFA41756624B"> 
		<li id="li_3A68403BE41D4AFDA3950538888D3FBE">How do I know whether I have
		  previously written something that I need to re-use? 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_82F4532F5FCE4753B2CA999810226C20">If I know I've already
		  written something on this subject, but where did I write that? 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_8B467CC6C5204A1781E5FA06B9977CCC">If I have a chunk of
		  information that I know will be common to three similar tasks, which task do I
		  put the "master" one in? 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_51B0213BC6DE494EBF29416C08200083">Can I have conrefs that
		  conref other chunks? Or is that crazy? 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>Using 
		<ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_centralised"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		files to store re-use elements is one strategy that partly helps to resolve
		these questions. Using logical names for re-use elements is another. However,
		DITA-aware 
		<term>Content Management Systems</term> have built-in tools for finding
		re-use opportunities and maintaining re-use elements. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
