<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_78AED30B52A444418D584842FE8901A3" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Re-use guidelines</title> 
  <shortdesc>Re-use guidelines can help simplify the practice of writing for
	 re-use. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>re-use<indexterm>guidelines</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>writing<indexterm>for
				re-use</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>context-agnostic
			 writing</indexterm><indexterm>content
			 re-use<indexterm>guidelines</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>When writing in a DITA environment, at topic level rather than document
		level, there are a few guidelines you can follow to make re-use easier by
		adopting the following guidelines. 
	 </p> 
	 <ul outputclass="listbullet" id="ul_C2E1FF7090034F5C9DA5B51B7E21D893"> 
		<li id="li_445934AD8D234307BD428D2C74C7D848">Avoid the use of 
		  <q>previous</q>, 
		  <q>next</q>, 
		  <q>earlier</q>, and 
		  <q>later</q> (such as in 
		  <q>More information on the product limitations are discussed
			 later</q>). Those referenced topics may not be included in all collections, or
		  may be included in a different sequence. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_8CB9205C45584D5C870DF073317F1C29">Don't use sequential numbers
		  in file names; rather, use descriptive names. (Use 
		  <filepath>ej20_engine_schematic.png</filepath> rather than 
		  <filepath>fig1.png</filepath>.) 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_463D275EEFEC43559827BC8DE17F632D">Avoid including branding in
		  graphics. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_5BADED2A95144E609E0BC7A7E7931979">Avoid including context
		  within explanatory paragraphs or steps. For example, don't write 
		  <q>The EJ20 engine of the 
			 <ph
			  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
			 
			 <ph
			  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Impreza_product_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
			 is naturally aspirated</q>; rather write 
		  <q>The EJ20 engine is naturally aspirated</q>. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_C3F1644CC132455CA5293EF2623C300E" status="changed">Move
		  contextual information to its own paragraph (or 
		  <i>context</i> element, for task topics). In the EJ20 example
		  preceding, the information about what models of car use the EJ20, and other
		  information relevant to the association between EJ20 and 
		  <ph
			conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>,
		  could be written into a separate paragraph. When the content needs to be
		  re-used in a differently badged product manual, that context paragraph can be
		  filtered out and the remaining non-contextual content re-used. 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
