<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D5030" status="new"> 
  <title>Re-using content from different elements</title> 
  <shortdesc>When re-using content through the conref feature, the referenced
	 element type must match the referencing element type. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>conref
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>conref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>transclusion</indexterm><indexterm>re-use</indexterm><indexterm>content
			 re-use</indexterm><indexterm>workarounds<indexterm>conref</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>You cannot re-use the text of one element directly inside the text of
		another. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, you cannot conref the text of a paragraph
		(<synph>p</synph>) element into a 
		<synph>note</synph> element as in: 
		<codeblock>&lt;p id="wiper_blades"&gt;...&lt;/p&gt;
...

&lt;note conref="conref_source.dita#cref_terms/wiper_blades" /&gt;</codeblock>The referenced element must match the referencing element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>When transcluding phrase elements, you can work around the matching
		elements requirement that by wrapping the text to be re-used in a generic
		phrase (<synph>ph</synph>) element. You can then re-use the 
		<synph>ph</synph> element within other elements. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, if you want to re-use the words 
		<q>STi Web Site</q> within normal paragraph text, as a citation
		(<synph>cite</synph>) element, and within cross-reference elements, you can use
		the approach: 
		<codeblock>&lt;ph id="sti_web"&gt;STi Web Site&lt;/ph&gt;
...

&lt;p&gt;
  The &lt;ph conref="conref_source.dita#cref_terms/sti_web" /&gt;...
&lt;/p&gt;

&lt;p&gt;
  As listed on the &lt;cite&gt;&lt;ph conref="conref_source.dita#cref_terms/sti_web" /&gt;&lt;/cite&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;

&lt;xref href="http://sti.<ph conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/ph_Subaru_company_name"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>.com.au" scope="external" format="html"&gt;
		&lt;ph conref="conref_source.dita#cref_terms/sti_web" /&gt;
&lt;/xref&gt;</codeblock> 
	 </p> 
	 <p rev="1.2" id="p_text_elment_conref"><ph
		conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_DITA12"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		introduced the 
		<synph>text</synph> element. Use this element in preference to the 
		<synph>ph</synph> element for re-using text snippets. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_9FF81B6AB8A24726B47D1E324370488A"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Michael Priestley, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
			href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/11889"  scope="external" format="html"> 
		  <p>&gt;&gt;is there a way to reuse the text content of one element as
			 the text content of a different element?&lt;&lt; 
		  </p> 
		  <p>Generally speaking, yes: by enclosing them both in a &lt;ph&gt;,
			 which is allowed in most text contexts. In your particular case, try creating a
			 set of child links in the chapter topic. You can put them in a linklist to give
			 them a specific intro etc. The links should auto-expand to include the title
			 and shortdesc of all target topics. That way you don't have to conref. In the
			 HTML output, even the links (at least to immediate children of the chapter
			 topic) get auto-created based on the hierarchy of the topicrefs in the map. If
			 you're willing to get into PDF customization, this would be another approach to
			 take, which would save you from hand-coding links that are redundant with the
			 TOC organization. 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
