<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_BDCD39B6997048C9B6DD72DFF5DBADBC" xml:lang="en"
 status="new"> 
  <title>Variables using 
	 <term>conref</term> and filtering</title> 
  <shortdesc>Single-source publishing relies heavily on the concept of 
	 <term>variables</term>. While DITA does not have a specifically named 
	 <term>variables</term> feature, it does readily support variables
	 functionality. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>ditaval</indexterm><indexterm>variables</indexterm><indexterm>filtering</indexterm><indexterm>conditional
			 processing</indexterm><indexterm>conditional publishing<index-see>conditional
				processing</index-see></indexterm><indexterm>conref
			 attribute</indexterm><indexterm>content
			 reference<indexterm>variables</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>content
			 reference<index-see>conref</index-see></indexterm><indexterm>transclusion<indexterm>variables</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>attributes<indexterm>conref</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In the context of single-source publishing, a variable is an element
		that is used throughout the content of a publication in place of a normal fixed
		unit of text. When the document is published, the variable element is replaced
		with a nominated phrase or block of text. Variables allow numerous text changes
		to be made with very little effort. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, documentation might be required for a product sold under
		two brand names, 
		<varname>Legend</varname> and 
		<varname>Liberty</varname>. Instead of 
		<term>hard-coding</term> the product name, a variable of 
		<varname>brand_name</varname> might be used whenever the product is
		mentioned in the text. During the publishing of the documentation for the 
		<varname>Liberty</varname> brand, the 
		<varname>brand_name</varname> variable is replaced with the word 
		<q>Liberty.</q> 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In DITA, variables are implemented through the 
		<term>conref</term> and 
		<term>ditaval</term> filtering features. The variable is coded as 
		<term>conreffed</term> element, such as 
		<codeph>&lt;ph conref="abc.dita#product" /&gt;</codeph>. The 
		<term>conref</term> source is coded using metadata attributes that can be
		used for filtering, such as: 
	 </p> 
	 <codeblock>&lt;ph id="product"&gt;
  &lt;ph product="Liberty"&gt;Liberty&lt;/ph&gt;
  &lt;ph product="Legend"&gt;Legend&lt;/ph&gt;
&lt;/ph&gt;</codeblock> 
	 <p>When the content is published, the conditional filtering in the 
		<term>ditaval</term> can be set so that only the applicable product name
		element is included in the output. 
	 </p> 
	 <example id="example_A9AC090DA0C24201B63D6553AB6F5C93"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Example of variable code for testing</title> 
		<p>This is the source of the 
		  <term>conref</term>: 
		  <ph id="product"><ph product="Liberty">Liberty</ph><ph
			 product="Legacy">Legend</ph></ph> 
		</p> 
		<p>The 
		  <ph conref="#concept_BDCD39B6997048C9B6DD72DFF5DBADBC/product"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
		  is a family vehicle available as a sedan or station wagon. 
		</p> 
		<p>To see the result of this construct in output, you must exclude either
		  
		  <codeph>product="Legend"</codeph> or 
		  <codeph>product="Liberty"</codeph> in the filtering conditions (in the 
		  <term>ditaval</term>). 
		</p> 
	 </example> 
	 <section id="section_81517FB4BF8147A182E325D536F984F8"
	 audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Rationale</title> 
		<lq reftitle="Jim Tivy, Yahoo! DITA Users Group"
			href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/dita-users/message/8910" scope="external" format="html"> 
		  <p>My use of conref for a variable is when the variable is content that
			 is valid DITA content - is an instance of some DITA class. Having "generic"
			 data for the variable helps the author visualize what the content model will be
			 when the variable is assigned to any particular value. As well, setting up
			 variable values can be done in the authoring tool. 
		  </p> 
		  <p>For example if you have generic data of: 
			 <codeblock>&lt;ph conref=/a/vars/ReUseFrags#Topic/CoName&gt;
 &lt;ph&gt;&lt;b&gt;CoName&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/ph&gt;&lt;ph&gt;CoLocation&lt;/ph&gt;
&lt;/ph&gt;</codeblock>at publish time you could replace it with 
			 <codeblock>&lt;ph conref=/a/vars/ReUseFrags#Topic/CoName&gt;
 &lt;ph&gt;&lt;b&gt;XYZ Corp.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/ph&gt;&lt;ph&gt;Paris&lt;/ph&gt;
&lt;/ph&gt;</codeblock> 
		  </p> 
		</lq> 
		<p><cite>Source: ()</cite> 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
