<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="D9347" status="new"> 
  <title>Writing for re-use</title> 
  <shortdesc>You should embrace a style or method of writing that produces
	 content suitable for re-use. This method includes an aim to 
	 <ph
	  conref="../../conref/conref_source.dita#topic_E1642C5A86C44BCE86FECD98EBAA3C89/var_minimise"><?xm-replace_text Phrase?></ph>
	 context. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <prolog><author>Tony
		Self</author><metadata><keywords><indexterm>re-use</indexterm><indexterm>writing<indexterm>for
				re-use</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>context-agnostic
			 writing</indexterm><indexterm>content re-use</indexterm></keywords></metadata>
  </prolog> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>In a linear writing environment, you tend to write in the context of the
		document you are creating. In modular writing, the writing needs to be removed
		from the context of its use. A modular topic might be used in different
		manuals, and in entirely different contexts. A description of a memory card may
		end up in a camera manual, a Netbook Help system, and a mobile phone Web-based
		user guide. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>In DITA, any 
		<term>taggable</term> element can be re-used through the 
		<term>conref</term> mechanism. This means that paragraphs (block
		elements) or phrases (inline elements) can be re-used. For example, a 
		<synph>note</synph> block might be used in multiple topics, and even more
		than once in an individual topic. Likewise, a procedural step, or a product
		name, might be a re-usable element. 
	 </p> 
	 <p importance="high">In a DITA authoring environment, you must therefore
		assume that almost everything you write may end up being re-used elsewhere. You
		must avoid including context in your writing, as context restricts the ability
		to re-use. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>For example, you should avoid phrasing such as 
		<q>in the following paragraphs</q>, or 
		<q>as discussed earlier</q>, or 
		<q>in the diagram below</q>. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>You should also avoid using 
		<term>restrictive references</term> where possible. For example, a step
		command such as 
		<q>Click Print in the navigation pane on the left</q> restricts the
		re-use of that step to cases where the Print button is located in the
		navigation pane on the left. While 
		<q>Click Print</q> or 
		<q>Click Print in the navigation panel</q> might sacrifice a little
		clarity, the benefits of re-use (including editing and translation efficiency)
		are usually worth the trade. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>It could be argued that making compromises to writing style in order to
		improve the opportunities for re-use results in poorer writing. However, the
		writing of technical documents is inextricably linked with the business
		requirements of budgets and deadlines. Trade-offs are common in technical
		documentation, so the trade-off between writing style and re-use is just
		another. 
	 </p> 
	 <section id="section_08F7B4413DC2494BBD95C261FD183871"
	  audience="contributor"> 
		<title>Further information and suggestions</title> 
		<p> Some DITA authors suggest that re-use at phrase level should be
		  avoided. The rationale is that translation of a phrase is more difficult
		  without the context, that a change to a re-used phrase may have unintended
		  consequences in some sentences that use that phrase, and that filtering with
		  conditions is easier to manage if there are different paragraphs, rather than
		  lots of phrase alternatives within one paragraph. The conclusion was best
		  practice is topic re-use, then paragraph re-use if required. 
		</p> 
	 </section> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
