<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-au" id="D2824">
  <title>Transclusion</title>
  <conbody>
	 <p>An old OASIS News story from 2002, titled 
		<cite>The Holy Grail of Content Reuse: IBM's DITA XML</cite>, 
		<ph xml:lang="en-AU">summarises</ph> conrefs well, and also introduces
		the idea of 
		<term>transclusion</term>.
	 </p>
	 <lq>
		<p>DITA design focuses upon the "topic" as a conceptual unit of
		  authoring. Larger documents can be created by aggregating topic units. A
		  "content referencing" (conref) mechanism may be used at the mark-up level to
		  combine several topics into a single document, or to share content among
		  topics.
		</p>
		<p>The DITA design has a unified content reuse mechanism by which an
		  element can replace itself with the content of a like element elsewhere, either
		  in the current topic or in a separate topic that shares the same content
		  models. The distinction between reusable content and reusing content, which is
		  enshrined in the file entity scheme, disappears: Any element with an ID, in any
		  DITA topic, is reusable by conref.
		</p>
		<p>DITA's conref 'transclusion' mechanism is similar to the SGML conref
		  mechanism, which uses an empty element as a reference to a complete element
		  elsewhere. However, DITA requires that at least a minimal content model for the
		  referencing element be present, and performs checks during processing to ensure
		  that the replacement element is valid in its new context. This mechanism goes
		  beyond standard XInclude, in that content can be incorporated only when it is
		  equivalent: If there is a mismatch between the reusing and reused element
		  types, the conref is not resolved. It also goes beyond standard entity reuse,
		  in that it allows the reused content to be in a valid XML file with a DTD. The
		  net result is that reused content gets validated at authoring time, rather than
		  at reuse time, catching problems at their source.
		</p>
	 </lq>
  </conbody>
</concept>
